{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b\f0\fs24 Wyoming Bookkeeper Sentenced for Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 19, 2006, in Casper, WY, Julie Ann Jacobsen, also known as Julie Ann Deliramich, was sentenced to 18 months in prison, 36 months of supervised release and ordered to pay $162,977 restitution to the IRS for tax evasion. Jacobsen pleaded guilty to one count of a five count indictment in January 2006. According to the indictment, Jacobsen filed false tax returns with the IRS and failed to report all of her income. The indictment also charged her with hiding assets under the name of another person to evade her income taxes.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Tennessee Woman Sentenced to 12 Months in Prison for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 17, 2006, in Knoxville, TN, Sarah Ann Staup was sentenced to serve 12 months and one day in prison, followed by 24 months of supervised release and ordered to pay a $10,000 fine. Staup pleaded guilty to income tax evasion charges in March 2006. While serving as the chief executive officer of Hensley Direct Inc., she admitted to writing 10 checks drawn on the Hensley checking account made payable to her husband or herself. She deposited the checks into her bank account and used the money for her personal benefit. To hide her actions, Staup classified the 10 checks as payments for Hensley\rquote s postage fees. Staup failed to report the income on her tax returns and failed to pay $101,203 in income tax.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Restaurant Owners Sentenced for Tax Fraud and Money Laundering\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 12, 2006, in Madison, WI, You Bin Yang and You Lin Yang were each sentenced to 34 months in prison, followed by 36 months of supervised release, fined $60,000 and ordered to jointly pay $366,800 for conspiracy to commit income tax fraud and conspiracy to structure financial transactions. The restaurant owners pleaded guilty in May 2006, admitting to evading $761,457 in federal income taxes from 1997 to 2001. They deposited credit card and check receipts into their business bank account, but pocketed cash receipts after taking the money to a credit union and converting it to larger bills. In addition, the defendants provided false monthly gross receipts totals to their accountants and underreported more than $2.6 million on their business tax return. The defendants also hired illegal aliens and failed to report employee wages or pay employment taxes to the IRS. After the IRS informed the defendants that they were subjects of a criminal tax investigation, they threw business and tax records into trash dumpsters.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Ohio Man Sentenced to Prison in Mortgage Fraud Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 6, 2006, in Cincinnati, OH, Larry D. Hensley was sentenced to 16 months in prison, followed by 36 months of supervised release and ordered to pay $30,000 in fines for money laundering, failure to file a tax return and conspiracy to commit fraud. Hensley was originally indicted on 21 counts, but, he pleaded guilty to three of the charges in 2005. According to the plea agreement, Hensley, through his company, Creekview Investments, bought real estate and immediately sold property to buyers at inflated amounts. Hensley recruited buyers with newspaper ads claiming that they could buy homes with full financing and no down payment. In order to get loans, Hensley falsified loan and government documents so his clients would qualify. Closing statements were also falsified to show that the buyer provided a down payment when, in fact, Hensley paid the down payment. Henley admitted to using his company to launder $412,059.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Kentucky Road Contractor Sentenced for Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 6, 2006, in Bowling Green, KY, James D. Scott, former owner of Scotty\rquote s Paving and Contracting, was sentenced to serve 12 months and one day in prison, followed by 12 months of supervised release. Scott paid approximately $1.2 million for back taxes, penalties and interest due and owing to the Internal Revenue Service before his sentencing. Scott pleaded guilty in March 2006, admitting to defrauding the IRS by filing tax returns from 1995 through 1996 that under reported his gross income by more than $986,000 and by taking false deductions for expenses in building his personal residence.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Florida Doctor Sentenced to Seven Years in Prison for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 6, 2006 in Pensacola, FL, Dr. Ward Dean, was sentenced to seven years in prison followed by six years of supervised release, a fine of $7500 and restitution to the IRS of approximately $300,000. Dean was convicted on seven counts of tax evasion in December 2005. A jury found that he fraudulently filed his 1997-2002 tax returns, claiming no income, when he actually received approximately $1.3 million dollars in income and owed more than $300,000 in taxes. A retired Navy Commander; Dean received a pension and other consulting income during the six year period. After the IRS began its review of Dean\rquote s failure to report income, Dean sent certified letters to financial institutions and others claiming the IRS summons were phony and threatened legal action if summons recipients disclosed his records to the IRS. According to the US Attorney in the case, Dean was a noted 'anti-tax' promoter in Pensacola, FL.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Nevada Businessman Sentenced to 46 Months in Prison for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 6, 2006, in Los Angeles, CA, Las Vegas businessman Garth Kloehn was sentenced to 46 months in prison, ordered to serve three years of supervised release and pay a $100,000 fine for tax evasion on his corporate and personal tax returns. Kloehn was convicted in December 2005 for causing his medical devices manufacturing firm to take false business deductions for marketing expenses paid to nominee companies in Bermuda and the Cayman Islands. Kloehn used money sent overseas to buy land and build homes for himself and his son. Kloehn also failed to report income he received from a limited partnership. Kloehn failed to pay approximately $1.2 million in federal taxes.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b San Francisco Remodeling Contractor Receives 10 Month Sentence for Tax Evasion \par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 27, 2006, in San Francisco, CA, Sam Ho Low was sentenced to five months in prison, five months home confinement, ordered to pay $73,954 in restitution and pay a $6,000 fine for intentionally underreporting his business income between 1997 and 1999. According to the plea agreement, the defendant owned and operated Frank and Sam\rquote s Construction and Remodeling Company, Inc., which was an "S" corporation under the Internal Revenue laws. Frank and Sam\rquote s Construction provided remodeling and construction services for residential and commercial clients in the Bay Area. Low admitted to asking clients to pay by check or cash and that he cashed the checks and used some of the money to pay business expenses such as salaries, wages, building materials and building supplies. He also admitted that he did not tell his tax return preparer about the checks he cashed or the currency he received and that none of it was reported on his income tax returns. He also admitted that he gave his income tax return preparer only the business bank statements to calculate his gross receipts for years including 1997 and 1999. The net tax loss to the United States was $73,954. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Kentucky Man Sentenced for Failing to Report $947,350 in Gambling Winnings to the IRS\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 12, 2006, in Bowling Green, KY, Cyrus Jeffrey Bland was sentenced to 24 months in prison, followed by 12 months of supervised release for filing false federal income tax returns. On January 26, 2006, Bland was found guilty of willfully failing to report gambling winnings of $499,640 in 1998 and $477,700 in 1999. On his income, he failed to pay $178,642 and $193,501, respectively, in federal income taxes. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Minnesota Man Receives 108 Month Prison Sentence\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 31, 2006, in St. Paul, MN, Scott Donald Wiele was sentenced to 108 months in prison and three years of supervised release for mail fraud, wire fraud, and money laundering. Wiele, pleaded guilty to the charges in August 2005. Through his company, First International Corp., Wiele promised investors large returns on their investments with little or no risk. Instead of investing the money as promised, Wiele used the money to pay for his personal expenses and to pay earlier investors. Wiele used some of the investors\rquote  money to finance high-yield investment deals called "pump and dumps." Through a "pump and dump" scheme, the value of company stock is artificially inflated by false representations made to the investing public. The promoters of the "pump and dump" then sell their shares before the false representations are discovered, causing the value of the stock to drop.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b West Virginia Coal Company Secretary Sentenced in Embezzlement Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 25, 2006, in Clarksburg, WV, Lee Ann Jones was sentenced to 27 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release and ordered to pay $355,000 in restitution to her former company and pay $105,000 to the IRS for tax fraud and mail fraud. Jones pleaded guilty in January 2006 to embezzling approximately $335,240 from her employer. She failed to include the money she embezzled on her federal tax returns.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Charter School Owners Sentenced for Defrauding School to Pay for Lavish Lifestyle\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 24, 2006, in Minneapolis, MN, William Pierce was sentenced to 37 months in federal prison, followed by three years of supervised release. His wife, Shirley Pierce, was sentenced to 30 months in prison and three years of supervised release. They were ordered to pay $489,239.65 in restitution to the Minnesota Department of Education. William and Shirley Pierce owned and operated the Right Step Academy, a not-for-profit school. An audit in 2000 revealed financial mismanagement at the academy, as well as failing to provide an adequate education for the students and unsafe transportation and facilities. The Pierces were convicted in October 2005 of conspiracy, filing false tax returns, mail fraud and wire fraud. Evidence during the trial revealed that the Pierces committed tax fraud when they failed to include as income about $55,701 on their federal tax returns in funds diverted from the academy. The Pierces set up a separate company to handle the school\rquote s accounting, payroll and human resource functions and excessively over-charged the school. The court found that Shirley Pierce, a former IRS revenue officer and special agent, committed perjury when she testified she was unaware of her tax obligations. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Kentucky Certified Public Accountant Sentenced to Prison for Filing False Tax Returns\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 23, 2006, in Covington, KY, Gary W. Collier was sentenced to 24 months in prison, followed by one year of supervised released for filing a false tax return. Collier, a certified public accountant, pleaded guilty on February 10, 2006 to one count of a four count indictment. In the Plea Agreement, Collier agreed that he failed to report more than $435,000 in taxable income from his 1998, 1999, and 2000 personal tax returns. Collier was ordered to pay $165,083 in taxes, plus interest and penalties. Collier was also ordered to pay restitution to the Internal Revenue Service. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Wisconsin Chiropractors Sentenced For Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 18, 2006, in Madison, WI, Ernst J. Neumeyer and Erich G. Neumeyer were each sentenced to 15 month prison terms and ordered to pay a $30,000 fine. The two co-owners of Neumeyer Chiropractic Clinic in Wausau, WI pleaded guilty on March 3, 2006 to filing false income tax returns by understating their incomes. The two brothers diverted receipts from their company and did not pay taxes on the diverted income.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Four California Defendants Sentenced for Money Laundering and Tax Evasion in Residential Brothel Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 24, 2006, in San Jose, CA, Xiao Feng Shen was sentenced to 24 months in prison and Ming Sun received a 20 month prison sentence for conspiracy to harbour aliens, money laundering and tax evasion in connection with the operation of 10 residential brothels. Two other defendants, Jia Jing Chu and Ai-Ching Chang were sentenced earlier. Chu was sentenced on May 23, 2006 to an 18 prison term and Chang was sentenced on May 3, 2006 to a prison term of 30 months. According to the plea agreements, Shen, Sun, Chu and Chang admitted that in 2004 and 2005, they hid women who did not legally enter the United States. The defendants admitted that they employed up to 99 women as prostitutes in rented, residential locations and kept some of the women\rquote s earnings as their own income. As part of the money laundering conspiracy, Shen, Sun, and Chang admitted that they collected money from the locations where the alien women were being harboured and used the proceeds to further promote the operation by paying expenses associated with harbouring the women. More than $708,000 has been seized by the government.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b "Survivor" Winner Sentenced to 51 Months in Prison for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 16, 2006, in Providence, RI, Richard Hatch was sentenced to 51 months in prison for failing to report $1 million of income to the IRS that he won from the "Survivor" television series and about $391,000 income from other sources. Hatch was also ordered to pay $474,971 in taxes, interest and penalties he owes for 2000 and 2001. The evidence showed that, in 2000, Survivor Entertainment Group (SEG) paid Hatch $1,010,000 for winning and appearing on the final episode of the initial "Survivor" series. Hatch's contract noted that he was responsible for paying taxes on his winnings. In 2001 and 2002, two accountants prepared returns for Hatch that reflected the Survivor income. The first showed that Hatch owed $441,501 in taxes and the second showed him owing $234,807. Hatch never filed either return. Instead, he asked the second accountant to prepare an "informational" return so he could know what his taxes would have been without the Survivor show income. According to the evidence, Hatch filed that return, despite an explicit warning from the accountant that he should not file it. As a result of that return, Hatch was due a $4,483 refund. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Oklahoma Woman Sentenced to Two 40 Month Prison Sentences for Wire Fraud and Money Laundering \par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 12, 2006, in Muskogee, OK, Angela Rae Williams was sentenced to two 40 month prison sentences for wire fraud and money laundering for embezzling from her employer, Unarco Industries Inc., where she worked as an account manager. The sentences against Williams will run concurrently. Williams was also ordered to pay $319,802.65 restitution to Unarco Industries, Inc. upon her release from prison. Williams, who pleaded guilty in December 2005, devised a scheme to divert money from her employer by manipulating the petty cash, advance accounts, as well as other accounts and financial procedures established at the company. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Ex-Stockbroker Sentenced to 40 Months in Prison for Defrauding Former Clients of Millions of Dollars\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 10, 2006 in White Plains, NY, former stockbroker Joseph Kane, Jr. received a 40 month prison sentence for defrauding private investors and two charitable institutions of $2.6 million and laundering the money. Kane was also sentenced to three years of supervised release and ordered to pay $2.6 million in restitution. Kane admitted to telling investors and entities that he was investing their money in bonds, mutual funds and other documented investments, but then put their money to different uses, including the payment of his own personal expenses and to repay other victims. When confronted by his victims, Kane made false and misleading representations about their supposed investments. According to the U.S. Attorney, much of Kane's fraudulent behavior in this case took place while he was on probation in connection with a previous securities fraud conviction.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b California Woman Sentenced to 6.5 Years for Embezzling $11 Million from Her Employer\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 10, 2006, in San Jose, CA, Carol Ann Huang was sentenced to 78 months in prison and ordered to pay restitution to be determined later for mail fraud and money laundering in connection with her embezzlement of over $11 million from her employer. Huang admitted to providing false payroll data to an employee at a payroll processing company that handled the payroll administration for two of her employer's companies. As a result, Huang received grossly inflated fictitious pay checks on a biweekly basis for at least six years. Huang also had the employee at the payroll processing company "back out" the tax and payroll data that showed that she had received the fraudulently issued pay checks. In support of this "adjustment," Huang provided the payroll company with bank records purportedly showing that the amount of money that she had fraudulently obtained had been reimbursed to the accounts. However, in fact the funds for these monthly "reimbursements" had been fraudulently obtained by Huang by making unauthorized withdrawals on personal lines of credit that she had taken out in her employer's name, without his knowledge, at three banks.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Title Company Owner Sentenced to Almost Two Years in Prison for Identity Theft and Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 10, 2006, in Reno, NV, Donna Lynn Glock was sentenced to 21 months in prison, ordered to pay $319,386.83 in restitution, and serve three years of supervised release on federal identity theft and tax evasion charges. Glock, a former real estate title company owner, pleaded guilty in November 2005 to obtaining mortgage loans in the names of other individuals and diverting corporate monies for her own personal use.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b San Diego Couple Sentenced in Connection with Fraudulent Investment Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 8, 2006, in San Diego, CA, Susan Browne and Charles Edward Browne were sentenced in connection with their roles in a fraudulent investment scheme called Alliance Leasing. Susan Browne was sentenced to 60 months in prison after entering a guilty plea to mail fraud and tax evasion. Charles Browne was sentenced to 51 months in prison on mail fraud charges. The Browne's and other defendants devised an investment scam promising investors a return of 16 percent per year with no risk. Investors were told that 90 percent of their funds would be used to purchase equipment that would be leased to independent businesses, and only 10 percent going to management fees. In reality, on top of the 10 percent management fee, at least 30 percent and sometimes more, of the investor funds were immediately siphoned off in the form of "commissions" to the Browne's, codefendants and others. In addition, later investors' funds were used to make up the shortfall created by high and undisclosed commissions, in classic Ponzi scheme fashion. More than 1,600 investors were defrauded of more than $46 million before the scheme collapsed.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Ukrainian Software Pirate Sentenced to 35 Months in Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 8, 2006, in San Jose, CA, Maksym Vysochanskyy, aka Maksym Kovalchuk, of Ternopil, Ukraine, received a 35 month prison term for selling pirated software. According to the plea agreement and other court records, Vysochanskyy sold pirated software programs, such as Adobe, Autodesk, Borland and Microsoft software on eBay and on Web sites he operated, including cdservice.org, bigcds.net and gold-cds.com. Vysochanskyy pleaded guilty in November 2005 to criminal copyright infringement, trafficking in counterfeit goods, and money laundering. The sentencing follows the defendant's extradition from Thailand, where he was arrested in May 2003. According to the U.S. Attorney, this case was one of the first involving an extradition for intellectual property crimes.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Fargo Real Estate Developer Sentenced for Mail Fraud and False Statements on Tax Returns\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 5, 2006, in Fargo, ND, Richard Louis Mische was sentenced to 24 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release for mail fraud and filing false tax returns. Mische was also ordered to pay more than $1 million in restitution to 10 real estate partnerships from which he embezzled money. Mische managed apartment complexes for investors and he admitted to giving himself advances and loans between 1997 to 2002. He provided false financial reports in an attempt to hide his scheme from partners and prepared false K-1 tax reports. Mische did not declare the embezzled income on his federal income tax returns.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Kansas City Attorney Sentenced for Failure to Pay Taxes\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On April 6, 2006, in Kansas City, MO, Dale E. Lovelace was sentenced to one year in prison for failing to pay $109,584 in federal income taxes for the calendar year 2000. Lovelace admitted that he received taxable income of $266,076 from his law practice during 2000. He also admitted that he failed to pay his income taxes for 1996 and 1997 and that he failed to file his income tax returns and pay income tax from 1998 through 2002.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Florida Attorney Sentenced in Tax Evasion Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 31, 2006, in Miami, FL, Matthew J. Schaefer was sentenced to one year and one day imprisonment, followed by three years of supervised release on one count of income tax evasion. Schaefer pleaded guilty in December 2005 for failure to pay taxes of approximately $133,000 for tax years 1999-2001. Schaefer failed to report his business receipts and overstated business expenses. The case judge denied Schaefer's request for probation, citing the importance of deterrence as a sentencing factor. The judge also ordered Schaefer to comply with the terms of his plea agreement in which Schaefer agreed to file amended income tax returns for tax years 1999 through 2001 and to pay the IRS more than $175,000 in back taxes.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Florida Chiropractor Sentenced on Tax Evasion Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 31, 2006, in Miami, FL, Eric Innes was sentenced to 36 months imprisonment, followed by three years supervised release, on three counts of tax evasion. The chiropractor was convicted for evading $40,000 in taxes on income earned in 1998 and 1999. It further alleged that Innes evaded the collection of more than $120,000 in taxes, interest, and penalties that he owed for tax years 1992-1995. During the trial, Innes testified that he was not a U.S. citizen for purposes of federal income taxes but was a US citizen for all other purposes including carrying a passport and registering to vote. Innes testified that he was not required to pay income taxes and that the income tax on wages was unconstitutional. Innes testified that he attended a meeting at a restaurant in West Palm Beach were he met people who taught him anti-tax ideas. Innes further testified that since his arrest, he realizes that the views regarding the tax system were wrong. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b West Virginia Man Sentenced for Filing False Income Tax Return\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 14, in Charleston, WV, Noel Richardson was sentenced to two years in prison, one year of supervised release, and ordered to pay $91,032 in restitution to the IRS for filing a false income tax return. According to the information and plea agreement, Richardson failed to report $375,000 in income he received. While working for several California motorcycle parts companies, Richardson admitted that he attempted to hide income by having checks payable to him written to names other than his own. He deposited the checks into bank accounts opened under other names to hide his income.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Sacramento Man Sentenced for Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 9, 2006, in Sacramento, CA, Jose J. Ramirez, was sentenced to a year and a day in federal custody and fined $10,000. He will also pay the taxes and penalties he owes to the Internal Revenue Service and the California State Franchise Tax Board. On September 22, 2005, Ramirez pleaded guilty to tax evasion. Under the terms of the plea agreement, he admitted that he filed false federal tax returns for 1997, 1998, and 1999, as well as false state tax returns for tax years 1997 and 1998. The tax loss to both the federal and state government was as much as $100,000.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b James Marietta Sentenced to 14 Months Imprisonment\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 7, 2006, in Youngstown, OH, James M. Marietta, III, was sentenced to serve 14 months in prison and three years supervised release for conspiracy to defraud the United States regarding the tax liabilities of the former president of the PIE Mutual Insurance Company (PIE). He was also fined $10,000 and ordered to pay $86,900 to the Internal Revenue Service. According to the indictment, Marietta was a consultant and chief financial officer of PIE, a large medical malpractice insurer. In 1998, the Ohio Department of Insurance ordered the company liquidated. In his plea agreement, Marietta admitted to conspiring with Larry E. Rogers, a former president of PIE, in order to help Rogers hide his taxable income from the IRS. Specifically, Rogers arranged for the company to pay $400,000 worth of consulting fees to a company owned by Marietta. Between October and December of 1994, Marietta paid $320,000 of these funds back to PIE to reduce Rogers\rquote  loan account with the company. Through this scheme, Marietta was able to help Rogers understate his taxable income by $320,000. In 2002, Rogers plead guilty to preparing a false tax return, misappropriation from an insurance company and conspiracy. He was sentenced to serve 40 months imprisonment and ordered to pay more than $13 million in restitution.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Bowie Man Sentenced for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 3, 2006, Baltimore, MD, Richard Taylor was sentenced to one year and a day in prison followed by three years of supervised release for tax evasion. He was also ordered to perform 100 hours of community service and to cooperate with the Internal Revenue Service in determining and paying his correct tax liability. Taylor pleaded guilty on November 2, 2005. According to the statement of facts presented to the court, Taylor evaded taxes for the tax years 1998 and 1999 in which he received taxable income of $350,868 and $436,507, in that order. Taylor did not file tax returns or pay taxes on the income. The tax due for 1998 was $106,974 and for 1999 was $148,507, for a total tax loss of $255,481. Taylor admitted that he used a Mastercard credit card issued by Leadenhall Trust Co. Ltd., of the Bahamas, to access money generated through the tax fraud scheme.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b I.D. Theft Ring Leader Gerald Small Sentenced 101 months in Multi-Million Dollar Mortgage Fraud Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 3, 2006, in Denver, CO, Gerald P. Small, III was sentenced to serve 101 months in federal prison and ordered to pay restitution of more than $37 million. The court gave a judgment and restitution deferment of 10 days so disputed issues in a related forfeiture proceeding could be resolved. Small and five others were indicted on April 6, 2004 for implementing a scheme to obtain hundreds of millions of dollars in bogus mortgages and multi-million dollar lines of credit by falsifying documents submitted through Small\rquote s company, Amerifunding, and another company controlled by Small named, 20th Century Mortgage, Inc. According to the plea agreement, Small and his associates at Amerifunding used help-wanted advertisements published in a Denver newspaper to solicit job applicants, promising salaries of more than $100,000 in order to get the applicants\rquote  personal identification information to obtain fraudulent mortgage loans. On February 7, 2006, Harry Lou Gayle, an employee of Gerald Small, was charged by Criminal Information with one count of filing a false tax return for 2002. According to the Information, Gayle received $44,000 for signing four false loan applications related to real estate fraud, but did not report the proceeds on his tax return. Gayle plead guilty on March 1, 2006 and is scheduled to be sentenced at a later date. During the course of the investigation and prosecution, assets obtained by Small and his associates were seized. The assets included 15 homes in Nevada and Colorado, a 2004 Jaguar, a 2003 Lexus, and more than $8 million.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b National Operator of Sexually Oriented Business Sentenced On Federal Obscenity and Tax Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 2, 2006, in Dallas, TX, Edward J. Wedelstedt was sentenced to 13 months in prison followed by one year of supervised release and ordered to perform 120 hours of community service. Wedelstedt pleaded guilty November 4, 2005 to charges of transporting obscene matters for sale or distribution and engaging in a conspiracy to defraud the United States. Wedelstedt was also ordered to terminate all current sexually-oriented business activities in the State of Texas and to forfeit all business property located in the state. In a previous civil hearing related to property seized during this investigation, Wedelstedt forfeited $1.25 million to the government. Wedelstedt admitted that he conspired with certain arcade managers within his company to have large amounts of cash generated from his company's arcade operations provided directly to him, giving him absolute control over the funds. Wedelstedt collected these large amounts of cash during trips on his private jet to Goalie Entertainment Holdings, Inc. (GEH) regional offices and carried the cash back to his headquarters in Denver. Wedelstedt directed his arcade managers to supply him with weekly summary sheets, along with the currency, that detailed the total amount of arcade revenue being provided to him personally. These weekly summary sheets, the only written record of the amount collected by Wedelstedt, were not retained by GEH. From these cash funds, Wedelstedt frequently paid cash salaries and cash bonuses to employees and other parties without reporting the payments to the company accounting or payroll departments. These recipients frequently did not report these payments as income to the IRS. These actions resulted in a tax loss to the government.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Sentence Imposed In \ldblquote Advance Fee\rdblquote  Scam\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 23, 2006, in Greensboro, NC, Donald Gary Desorbo was sentenced to six years, eight months in prison, followed by three years supervised release. Desorbo pled guilty to charges in two indictments, admitting that he ran an advance fee scheme to defraud in which he promised to secure investment capital for entrepreneurs in return for a substantial pre-payment for his expenses. He never succeeded in securing the investment money, returned none of the pre-paid funds, and promptly converted the entrepreneurs\rquote  monies to his own use and benefit. Desorbo also admitted laundering the proceeds of his scheme through financial institutions. The investigation identified 48 victims who entrusted approximately $ 6,700,000 to Desorbo in the hope that he could raise money as promised. In the second indictment, Desorbo pleaded guilty to making false statements to the Government in order to secure a passport. Desorbo acknowledged at an earlier hearing that he was not truthful when he declared in a passport application that he had lost a previously-issued passport, when, in fact, he knew it had been seized by federal agents during a search of his residence. As a part of the plea agreement, Desorbo signed a forfeiture agreement so that any funds and assets recovered would become the property of the Government\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Tax Resister Sentenced to Prison for Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 23, 2006, in Las Vegas, NV, Cynthia Neun, long time associate of Irwin Schiff, was sentenced to 68 months in prison, followed by three years supervised release for her convictions on conspiring to defraud the United States, aiding and assisting in the preparation of false income tax returns, failing to file her own tax returns, Social Security disability fraud, and theft of government property. Neun was also ordered to pay $1,107,357 in restitution to the IRS. Neun, Irwin Schiff, and colleague Lawrence Cohen were found guilty in October 2005 for their involvement in aiding thousands of taxpayers in the filing of false federal income tax returns with the IRS that reported zero taxable income, in spite of the taxpayers earning reportable income. Nuen was second in command at Irwin Schiff\rquote s Freedom Books and actively sold products encouraging customers not to pay taxes, prepared numerous false returns, and represented hundreds of taxpayers before the IRS where she promoted Schiff\rquote s misleading and incorrect arguments. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Divorce Attorney Sentenced to Prison for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 15, 2006, in San Jose, CA, Demetrious Eugenios was sentenced to 30 months in prison, and ordered to pay $1,265,662 in restitution for evasion of payment of income taxes for 1989 and 1991 through 1999. Eugenios, a former divorce attorney was convicted on June 28, 2005, for evasion of payment of income taxes evidence showed that Eugenios reported gross income for the years 1989 and 1991 through 1999 totaling $2,561,656. He reported income tax due and owing for those years totaling $654,724 of which he paid only $43,202. Evidence was presented that Eugenios concealed assets from the IRS including interests in several real estate properties and the ownership of a Porsche and a Toyota Tundra truck. During the execution of a search warrant on Eugenios\rquote  residence on October 20, 2003, IRS agents discovered $42,575 in cash and $10,686 in gold and silver coins.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Portland Resident Sentenced in $1.2 Million Dollar Investment Fraud Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 13, 2006, in Portland, OR, Peter F. McKinnon was sentenced to 40 months in prison, followed by 36 months of supervised release for the crimes of mail fraud and money laundering. Restitution in the amount of nearly $1.2 million was ordered to be repaid to the victims. In October of 2005, McKinnon pled guilty to single counts of mail fraud and money laundering and admitted to stealing more than $1.2 million from individuals seeking to invest money. According to the plea agreement, between approximately August 20, 1999 and May 19, 2004, McKinnon engaged in a scheme to defraud at least 12 investors of approximately $1,219,605 by making false promises to invest their funds in legitimate stocks and mutual funds. In truth, McKinnon converted the funds and enriched himself by using the money to pay his own business and personal expenses. The sources of the victims' nearly $1.2 million that was lost include: retirement savings; trust funds; proceeds from a house refinance; proceeds from the sale of a house; the transfer of family trust funds; a lawsuit settlement; previous investments and proceeds from the sale of properties.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Man Who Ran Ponzi Scheme gets 70 Months in Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 13, 2006, San Diego, CA, Edmundo P. Rubi was sentenced to 70 months in prison for conspiracy to commit mail fraud and money laundering. Rubi previously pleaded guilty to the charge that the conspired to conduct a scheme to defraud investors out of more than $12 million using his companies, Knights Express, Ltd. and Djmler Enterprises, Inc. Rubi was also ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $12,483,000. According to the plea agreement, beginning in 1999 and continuing up to October 31, 2001, Rubi formed and operated Knights Express Ltd. and Djmler Enterprises, Inc. for the purpose of soliciting investments from members of the public. In connection with his guilty plea, Rubi admitted that he made false, fraudulent, and misleading representations that investor funds would be used to purchase and resell Federal Reserve notes in an international trading program. In actuality, no such international trading program existed. Rubi further admitted that he knew that the investors\rquote  funds were not being used for the purported investment program. Millions of dollars of investor funds were used instead to pay the periodic returns that investors received and to make unsecured investments. Rubi also intentionally concealed from investors the fact that millions of dollars of investor funds were converted for his own personal use and benefit. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Man Who Purported to be a CPA and Former IRS Employee Sentenced\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 7, 2006, in Oakland, CA, Raymond Francis Hill was sentenced to 21 months in prison. On May 5, 2005, on the second day of trial, Hill pleaded guilty to one count of assisting and advising in the preparation of false tax returns. Hill began performing tax preparation work in 1967, and started a hearing aid business in the 1980s. Starting in 1997, while operating his hearing aid business, the defendant prepared so-called "zero-returns" for taxpayers. Hill prepared these false returns knowing that the "zero" income which he reported was false because the W-2 forms attached to the returns reflected significant wages. According to the testimony at trial, Hill falsely told others that he was a CPA and a former employee of the IRS. As part of the plea agreement, Hill is enjoined from preparing other individuals' income tax returns for a period of seven years. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Defendant Sentenced to 51 Months in Loan Fraud Case; Ordered to Pay Restitution of $661,695\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 3, 2006, in Riverdale, CA, Javeed Siddiqui was sentenced to 51 months in prison and ordered to pay restitution of $661,695. Siddiqui pleaded guilty in February 2004, to six criminal charges, including mail fraud, bankruptcy fraud, using an unauthorized access device, and aiding and abetting an Internal Revenue Service revenue officer in the receipt of unauthorized compensation. Siddiqui admitted to using false income information and a false social security number to apply for numerous loans under his name and in the names of others. Siddiqui would than default on the loans. He also admitted unauthorized use of a credit card, false statements in a bankruptcy proceeding, and aiding and abetting an Internal Revenue Service revenue officer in the receipt of unauthorized compensation. A former IRS revenue officer and associate of Siddiqui was sentenced to one year of probation on March 22, 2004, after pleading guilty to accepting compensation for unauthorized employment outside of the IRS and making false statements to federal agents. According to documents filed with the court, Jon T. Elliott prepared federal income tax returns and Offer in Compromises at one of Siddiqui's businesses, "Asset Protection Services" while he was an employee of the IRS. These documents allege that Siddiqui told clients that he knew someone at the IRS \ldblquote that could do stuff.\rdblquote  It is also alleged that Elliott was paid by Siddiqui because of official duties performed by Elliott, including accessing an IRS computer database and preparing a release of a federal tax lien. Elliott denied receiving any compensation when initially interviewed by TIGTA. Siddiqui also pleaded guilty to paying Elliott.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Tax Resistor Sentenced to Prison for Aiding in Preparation of False Income Tax Returns\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 3, 2006, in Las Vegas, NV, Lawrence Cohen was sentenced to 33 months in prison followed by one year supervised release and ordered to pay $480,000 in restitution to the IRS. Cohen, an associate of long time tax resistor Irwin Schiff, was convicted in October 2005 of aiding and assisting in the preparation of a false and fraudulent 2000 individual income tax return for Virginia Olen. The return represented that Olen had total income of zero during calendar year 2000 and was entitled to a refund of $3,505, when Cohen knew she had substantial income during that year. Co-defendants Irwin Schiff and Cynthia Neun were convicted of conspiring to defraud the United States and aiding and assisting in the preparation of false and fraudulent tax returns. According to the indictment and evidence introduced at trial, Cohen, Schiff and Neun aided thousands of taxpayers in the filing of false federal income tax returns with the IRS and reported zero taxable income in spite of the taxpayers earning reportable income. Cohen was a salesman at Freedom Books and actively sold products encouraging customers not to pay taxes. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Husband and Wife Sentenced for Falsifying Tax Returns\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 1, 2006, in San Francisco, CA, Hong Van Phan and Khanh Dieu Hoang, husband and wife, were sentenced for falsifying their federal income tax returns between 1999 and 2002. Hoang was sentenced to 28 months in prison and ordered to pay $271,111 in restitution and a $7,500 fine. Phan was sentenced to 16 months in prison and ordered to pay $76,163.07 in restitution and a $7,500 fine. The defendants delivered to the government a check for $2,816,788.43 just minutes before sentencing as partial payment for their unpaid taxes, penalties, and interest. Defendant Phan worked for Lucent Technologies and its predecessor company Ascent Communication from 1996 until 2003. Phan invented a testing device which he then sold to Lucent. However, since his employment contract with Lucent prohibited such sales, Phan and his wife created a company to manufacture and sell the product to Lucent, without Lucent knowing of his involvement. The defendant received approximately $8,000,000 in sales revenue which they did not report on their 1998-2002 tax returns, resulting in unpaid tax of approximately $3,300,000, excluding interest and penalties. Hoang and Phan pleaded guilty on September 28, 2005, to four counts and one count, respectively, of filing false tax returns. There was no plea agreement with Hoang, who admitted in court to preparing their joint tax returns for the years 1999 through 2002 and failing to report approximately $8 million of income they earned from a business they owned and operated. According to the plea agreement with Phan, he admitted to being aware of his wife\rquote s failure to report approximately $200,000 of income from their business on their 2002 tax return.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Business Planning Manager at the 3M Corporation Sentenced\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 31, 2006, in Minneapolis, MN, Bruce Alan Baird was sentenced to 33 months in prison and ordered to pay approximately $1.7 million in restitution. Baird pled guilty in August 2004 to one count of forged securities, one count of mail fraud, and two counts of filing false federal tax returns. A former Business Planning Manager at the 3M Corporation, Baird admitted that he prepared and submitted to 3M for payment fraudulent invoices, purported to be from 3M vendors, and directed the checks to be delivered to post office boxes he controlled. Baird then intercepted the checks, deposited the funds in his bank account, and used the money for personal purposes. Baird also forged vendor endorsements on the checks and converted the monies to his own use. Baird\rquote s scheme defrauded 3M of more than $1.7 million over ten years. Baird also admitted to filing false federal tax returns for 2001 and 2002. For calendar year 2001 he failed to declare on his federal tax return approximately $125,000 in embezzled funds. For calendar year 2002, Baird failed to declare on his federal tax return approximately $247,000 in embezzled funds. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Centerville Woman Sentenced on Money Laundering and Tax Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 25, 2006, in Boston, MA, Lynn Alberico was sentenced to 27 months in prison, followed by two years supervised release, and ordered to forfeit $100,000. Alberico was convicted by a jury of conspiracy to commit money laundering, making and subscribing to a false tax return, and failure to file a tax return. Evidence presented at trial proved that on July 9, 1997, Stephen Queen illegally obtained over $900,000 in cash from his parents' safe deposit boxes in Florida. Alberico, along with her now ex-boyfriend, George Upton, stole the money from Queen and subsequently laundered a portion of it through the purchase of two pieces of real estate. The property was purchased with 13 separate cashier's checks that were acquired by Alberico, Upton, and four other individuals recruited by Upton. The cashier's checks were purchased through a series of convoluted currency transactions, involving structured deposits in amounts below $10,000, deposits into individual and business bank accounts, and cash purchases. In addition, the evidence proved that Alberico and Upton put a phony mortgage on the property in order to conceal the purchase of the property with cash. The evidence also established that of the $900,000 stolen, Alberico received approximately $100,000 of it. She did not report this additional income on her 1997 federal tax return, but instead reported an adjusted gross income of $17,341 from her business. In 1999, Alberico and Upton sold one of the properties in which Alberico received approximately $39,000 of the profit. Despite this profit, Alberico did not file an income tax return at all in 1999. Her co-defendant, George Upton was convicted and sentenced to 13 \'bd years' in prison and ordered to forfeit over $395,000. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Ex-School Official is Sentenced\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 13, 2006, in Minneapolis, MN, Colleen J. Gardner was sentenced to 37 months in prison, and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $130,766 to the Winona Area Catholic Schools after pleading guilty in April 2005 to one count of mail fraud and two counts of tax evasion. Gardner admitted she misappropriated funds from five different checking accounts maintained by the Winona Area Catholic Schools. She fraudulently took cash that was to be deposited into the various bank accounts and also diverted funds by writing and cashing checks payable to cash and to herself. In an attempt to conceal her actions, Gardner made false accounting entries. During the course of the scheme, which ran from January 1998 to September 2003, Gardner misappropriated approximately $787,479. Gardner told the court that she lost most of the money gambling at a local casino. Gardner also admitted to tax evasion for calendar years 2002 and 2003. Her tax returns for those two years understated her income because they did not include the money she took from WACS. For calendar year 2002, Gardner claimed her taxable income was $10,306, when her taxable income was approximately $196,965, resulting in the underpayment of taxes of nearly $50,000. For calendar year 2003, Gardner claimed her taxable income was $17,098, when her taxable income was more than $97,000, resulting in the underpayment of taxes of approximately $16,000.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Rapper \ldblquote Mystikal\rdblquote  Sentenced for Failure to File Federal Tax Returns\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 12, 2005, in the Baton Rouge, LA, Michael L. Tyler was sentenced to 12 months in prison to be followed by two years supervised release. Tyler was also ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $270,891.52 less payments already made to the Internal Revenue Service. This follows his August 12, 2005, guilty plea to a two-count Bill of Information (BOI) charging Tyler, better known as rap artist \ldblquote Mystikal\rdblquote , with failure to file federal income tax returns. According to the BOI, Tyler received gross income of approximately $824,915.79 and $930,953.49 for the 1998 and 1999 tax years, respectively. Tyler, by reason of such gross income, was required by law to file a tax return following the close of the calendar year with the IRS. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former President and COO of Parsons & Whittemore Pleads Guilty to Making False Statements to The IRS\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 4, 2006, in New haven, CT, Arthur L. Schwartz, the former President and Chief Operating Officer of Parsons & Whittemore, Inc., pleaded guilty to two counts of making false statements to the Internal Revenue Service during the course of two separate audits at Parsons & Whittemore. According to court records Schwartz was responsible for overseeing Parsons & Whittemore\rquote s financial activities and its personnel, insurance, legal and tax matters. Schwartz admitted that he falsely told the Revenue Agent during a 1999 civil audit that the CEO\rquote s tax returns for 1995, 1996 and 1997 had been filed when he knew that they had not been filed. Also, Schwartz stated that he would provide the IRS with copies of the returns when he knew that none existed because the returns at issue had not been filed. From March 1999 to January 2001, Schwartz continued to falsely represent to the IRS that the tax returns had been filed when he knew they had not been. Schwartz also admitted that during a 1996 audit he provided copies of individual income tax returns for 1992 and 1993 knowing they were not copies of the returns he had filed with the IRS. Schwartz will be sentenced on March 23, 2006\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Prison Sentence for Non-Filing of Federal Tax Returns\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 3, 2006, in Green Bay, WI, Lester C. Minard, III, was sentenced to one year in prison for failing to file federal income tax returns for the years 1999 through 2001. Minard has also been ordered to spend 120 days in a community correctional facility as part of his one year probation period upon release. Minard pleaded guilty in September 2005, to all three charges brought against him for failure to file his individual federal income tax returns with the IRS. According to the plea agreement, Minard set up a telemarketing business in Antigo in 1995 that sold magazine subscription renewals. All of his business activity was processed through Nationwide Marketing Services which is located in Redwood City, California. Minard purchased lists of names of people with magazine subscriptions from Nationwide and then hired people to call these individuals to solicit renewals of the subscriptions. Minard then submitted to Nationwide the names and payment information for individuals who had purchased subscription renewals. Nationwide would calculate the commissions owed to Minard and send him a check every two weeks paying him his net commissions. In addition, at the end of each year, Nationwide sent Minard a Form 1099 summarizing the payments that had been made to him during the year. Based on an analysis of these payments, the IRS calculated the gross receipts for the years 1999 through 2001 to be in excess $1.3 million dollars and the tax due on this income of $156,155. As a special condition of his release, Minard is required to cooperate with the IRS, submit delinquent returns, and pay back taxes and interest.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Leader of Motor Vehicle Department Bribery Ring Sentenced to Over 17 Years in Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On December 19, 2005, in Phoenix, AZ, Moustapha Lotfi ElJammal was sentenced to 17\'bd years in prison and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of by $326,333. In March 2005, ElJammal was convicted of 15 counts including conspiracy, altering vehicle identification numbers and transportation and sale of stolen vehicles. According to the indictment, ElJammal conspired with other defendants to steal motor vehicles from Canada and the United States. Before or after a motor vehicle was stolen, the defendants searched for and found a Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) from a \ldblquote donor\rdblquote  vehicle, usually the same make, model and year as the stolen vehicle. ElJammal and other defendants would copy or acquire the donor\rquote s VIN or other identification markings. They would then make a matching fictitious VIN plate, almost identical to the manufacturer\rquote s original VIN plate on the donor vehicle or remove the actual VIN plate from the donor vehicle, which is known as \ldblquote VIN-switching.\rdblquote  ElJammal and the other defendants created counterfeit title/registration documentation for each \ldblquote cloned\rdblquote  vehicle. They then used this counterfeit documentation to obtain fraudulent title and registration documentation from the State of Arizona. The evidence at trial, showed that ElJammal and co-conspirators engaged in activity from 1999 through 2002 that involved the theft and VIN switching of motor vehicles with an estimated value of millions of dollars.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Ponzi Scheme Nets Businessman 240 Months in Prison; Ordered to Pay Over $145 Million in Restitution\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On December 16, 2005, in Los Angeles, CA, Larry Toshio Osaki, who ran a gigantic Ponzi scheme, was sentenced to 240 months in prison. In addition to prison time, Osaki was ordered to pay more than $145 million in restitution to victims. Osaki pleaded guilty on March 22, 2005 to conspiracy to commit securities fraud, two counts of securities fraud, obstruction of justice and one count of money laundering. Osaki\rquote s scheme cumulatively collected a quarter billion dollars from nearly 7,000 investors and caused $145 million in losses. From at least 1997 until his arrest in October 2003, Osaki offered investments in accounts receivable financing, which is sometimes called factoring. Investors were told that their money would be used to purchase the accounts receivable of latex glove manufacturing companies based in Asia and that investments would yield returns of 20 percent every 90 days. Instead, Osaki used investors\rquote  money to improperly pay the salaries for him and his associates and run his own venture capital firm.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Bay Harbor Island Real Estate Broker Sentenced for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On December 15, 2005, in Miami, FL, Angelo Pizzuto was sentenced to 18 months\rquote  in prison, followed by three years supervised release, and ordered to pay restitution to the IRS in the amount of $807,240 following his guilty plea to one count of income tax evasion. According to the criminal charges and court records, Pizzuto was a real estate broker who often handled large development projects for foreign investors. Because the investors came to the United States infrequently, Pizzuto was entrusted with considerable funds to manage their projects, including the hiring and paying of builders. Beginning in approximately 1999, Pizzuto used investor funds for his personal benefit and failed to disclose these funds as income. In total, Pizzuto used more than $2 million of investors' funds to finance his own lifestyle, including the payment of rental cars, dinners, consumer goods, and even the purchase of real estate. By failing to report this income, Pizzuto failed to pay the IRS substantial taxes. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Zanesville Man Sentenced to Prison for Fraud Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On December 8, 2005, in Columbus, OH, Joseph E. Kennedy was sentenced to 49 months in prison, followed by three years supervised release and fined $500 for his role in a conspiracy to defraud the IRS and others using bogus cashiers checks. According to testimony given at trial, Kennedy attempted to defraud the IRS and others by mailing counterfeit and fraudulent cashiers\rquote  checks from a fictitious foreign Swiss bank, called Euro Credit and Exchange Bank, Ltd., operated by an unindicted co-conspirator. Kennedy submitted at least twelve counterfeit checks worth over $900,000 to various entities. However, he mailed most of the checks to the IRS to \ldblquote pay\rdblquote  the delinquent tax liabilities for himself, a co-defendant, and several clients of an entity known as American Financial. Enclosed with the fraudulent cashiers\rquote  checks were bogus legal orders called \ldblquote Writs of Praecipe\rdblquote  that were allegedly issued by a non-existent common law court. These \ldblquote Writs\rquote  directed the IRS to cash the checks and refund the balance to Kennedy or others or pay damages in excess of $10,000,000. Evidence at trial showed that Kennedy used one check in an attempt to purchase $525,000 of pay phones as an investment for a group he claimed he represented in the Bahamas. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Northridge Businessman Sentenced to Prison for Submitting False Corporate Income Tax Return\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On December 5, 2005, in Los Angeles, CA, Michael Paul Monroe was sentenced to a year and a day in federal prison, followed by one year of supervised release with a condition of six months of home confinement, and a fine of $22,640 following his August 2005 guilty plea to one count of subscribing to a false corporate federal income tax return for Swim Pool Construction Co., Inc. for its fiscal year ending April 30, 2000. Monroe admitted that he held an ownership interest in, worked for, and participated in the management of Swim Pool Construction Co., Inc. and Monroe Pool Service, Inc., both of which conducted business in the Los Angeles area. Monroe admitted that Swim Pool Construction Co., Inc. failed to report business receipts of $2,196,893 for the three year period ending April 30, 2001, and that Monroe Pool Service, Inc. failed to report business receipts of $419,790 during the same time period. Monroe admitted that he cashed some customers\rquote  checks paid to the corporations, rather than deposit the checks into the corporations\rquote  bank accounts. Monroe failed to report the gross receipts from the cashed checks on the corporations\rquote  tax returns. As part of the plea entered in this matter, Monroe also agreed to have true and accurate tax returns filed for Swim Pool Construction Co, Inc. and Monroe Pool Service, Inc. for the fiscal years ending April 30, 1999, 2000, and 2001 and to have the corporations pay the IRS the taxes, penalties, and interest assessed on these tax returns. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Odessa Attorney Sentenced on Tax Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 29, 2005, in San Antonio, TX, Stephen C. Ashley was sentenced to two years in prison, followed by two years supervised release and fined $5,000 for filing a false United States Estate Tax Return and unlawfully conspiring with other individuals to defraud the IRS in its efforts to collect estate taxes. Ashley was the executor of his father\rquote s estate and assumed responsibility for filing all pertinent documents with the IRS concerning the estate\rquote s affairs. Ashley admitted that during the preparation of the tax return of his father\rquote s estate he directed his secretary to type four backdated Gift Deeds falsely reflecting his father had deeded a certain portion of a ranch he owned to his sons in 1989 \endash  1992, when in fact his father had not deeded portions of the ranch until 1993. He also had his father\rquote s former secretary forge his signature on the false deeds and had false notary records created. In 2002 during an IRS audit of the estate return, Ashley and his accountant submitted to the IRS copies of the four fraudulent gift deeds, and admitted to lying to the IRS about the fraudulent deeds and later directing his secretary to lie to the IRS agents investigating the case.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Proponent of 861 Argument Sentenced for Failure to Timely File Income Tax Returns\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 22, 2005, in Philadelphia, PA, Larken Rose was sentenced to 15 months in prison, followed by one year supervised release and fined $10,000. Rose was convicted by jury in August 2005 to five counts of willful failure to file federal income tax returns. According to the evidence introduced at trial, Rose willfully failed to file personal federal income tax returns for calendar years 1998 through 2002, despite earning $500,000 during those years. On those amended returns, he reported no tax due and requested a refund for all income taxes paid in those years. At trial, Rose claimed that he failed to file returns and sought refund claims based on his determination that his income received inside the United States was not taxable under Internal Revenue Code Section 861 and regulations. The judge instructed the jury that this Section 861 argument is incorrect as a matter of law.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Accountant Sentenced for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 21, 2005, in New Haven, CT, David E. Montesi was sentenced to 27 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release. On August 17, 2005, Montesi waived indictment and pleaded guilty to one count of income tax evasion. According to Court records, Montesi, formerly employed as an accountant with a firm in Norwalk, attempted to evade the payment of a large part of the income tax owed by him and his spouse for the calendar year 1999 by filing a false and fraudulent amended joint U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, Form 1040. Specifically, Montesi stated on the return that their joint taxable income for the calendar year 1999 was $46,048, and that the amount of tax due and owing was $6,616 when, in fact, their joint taxable income for that year was $220,020. By omitting this additional income, Montesi evaded the payment of $56,272 in taxes. During the course of the investigation, it was learned that, over several years, Montesi had embezzled $550,520 from a Norwalk medical practice and failed to pay taxes on the unreported stolen funds. Montesi was also ordered to pay $177,461 in federal taxes he evaded paying from 1997 to 2000, plus penalties and interest.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Westchester Pair That Owned More Than Two Dozen Dunkin Donuts Franchises Plead Guilty to Tax Evasion and Bank Fraud Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 17, 2005, in White Plains, NY, Constantine Gianopoulos and his brother Anastasios Gianopoulos pleaded guilty to tax fraud and other charges relating to their ownership of more than two dozen Dunkin Donuts franchises. According to the Informations filed, the pair engaged in a scheme to evade both income and payroll taxes in connection with their operation of the donut shops by failing to file corporate and partnership tax returns, failing to file their personal income tax returns, disguising the salaries of certain employees as nontaxable \ldblquote expense reimbursements,\rdblquote  and submitting false W-2 forms and payroll tax forms to the IRS. The pair evaded more than $1.5 million in payroll and income taxes and agrees as part of the plea agreement to make restitution in the full amount of the tax loss. Both defendants also pleaded guilty to making false statements on a series of loan applications. The applications requested a total of more than $3 million in loans. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Dallas Man Sentenced to Nearly 20 Years in Prison Following Conviction for $10 Million Tax-Evasion Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 16, 2005, in Dallas, Texas, Daniel A. Fisher was sentenced to 235 months imprisonment and ordered to pay a $1,000,000 fine. Fisher was convicted by jury on 34 counts of aiding and assisting in the preparation and presentation of false and fraudulent tax returns, one count of bank fraud, one count of making a false statement in connection with a loan application and one count of making a false declaration before a court. The tax returns were fraudulent because they involved the creation of sham business entities and transactions aimed at eliminating taxes owed by the tax payers. Count 35 of the indictment charged Fisher with committing perjury during a civil hearing related to his tax activities where he testified under oath that he did not have any tax clients and did not perform any work for these clients. The false statement and bank fraud counts related to Fisher and his wife making false statements to Wells Fargo Bank and attempting to defraud that bank in connection with their application for a $300,000 revolving credit line at the bank.\par
From 2001 through 2003, Fisher convinced many successful, prominent individuals around Dallas/Fort Worth and other cities across the United States that he could set up business entities for them and eliminate their tax liabilities. Fisher specialized in targeting wealthy married couples, convincing them to \ldblquote restructure\rdblquote  their tax returns. The government provided evidence that Fisher\rquote s scheme involved creating and backdating sham partnerships for his tax clients. Under these sham business entities, the defendant fabricated transactions and \ldblquote intangible assets\rdblquote  to create \ldblquote deductions\rdblquote  used to wash out the couples\rquote  income and create a loss in the partnership.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Defendant Nate Gray Sentenced to 15 Years in Jail in Broad National Public Corruption, Fraud Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 16, 2005 in Cleveland, OH, Nate Gray was sentenced to 15 years in prison, followed by three years of supervised release and ordered to pay $1.5 million in restitution to the Internal Revenue Service. Gray was convicted in August 2005 following a corruption conspiracy trial and had also pleaded guilty to evading payment of previously assessed income taxes. The sentencing for one of Gray's co-defendants, New Orleans businessman Gilbert Jackson was continued to a later date. Jackson was also remanded into custody, and still faces trial the Eastern District of Louisiana in January 2006 on a multi-count indictment for tax evasion. The sentence imposed today was the result of a multi-district probe of public corruption offenses in Cleveland, East Cleveland, Ohio, Houston and New Orleans. In all, eight defendants have been convicted and sentenced in the case. The investigation revealed a wide range of public corruption, including the providing of money and luxury items to public officials in exchange for official acts such as the awarding of municipal contracts.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former President of Disaster Recovery and Clean-up Company Sentenced in FEMA Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 1, 2005, in St. Paul, MN, Kieger Enterprises (KEI) and Edward Kieger, Jr., former president and owner of KEI, were sentenced for engaging in a fraud scheme to enrich themselves by taking advantage of funds available for disaster relief efforts. Kieger was sentenced to 42 months in prison and ordered to pay $1.2 million in restitution, jointly and severally with Kieger Enterprises and other defendants. Kieger Enterprises was sentenced to one year probation and ordered to pay $1.2 million in restitution, jointly and severally with Kieger and other defendants. Kieger pled guilty to racketeering conspiracy and obstruction of justice. KEI, represented by Edward Kieger, pled guilty to mail fraud and obstruction of justice Kieger and KEI and other defendant sought to enrich themselves and defraud their customers by exaggerating and inflating the amount of work being performed. From 1998 to July 2002, Kieger, KEI and others routinely submitted false bills and documents and engaged in an orchestrated pattern of fraud that bilked corporate customers. Kieger, KEI and others, on occasion, would pay bribes and kickbacks to employees of private companies. In return, those employees would use their influence to see that KEI was awarded contracts and that the employees\rquote  companies would pay the inflated bills submitted by KEI.\par
Eight Sentenced to Federal prison for Investment Fraud Scheme\par
On October 28, 2005, in Grand Rapids, MI, Janet Mavis Marcusse, the ringleader, along with seven other defendants were sentenced for their part of a large investment fraud scheme that collected approximately $20.7 million from 577 victims. The eight defendants sentenced were:\par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sb100\sa100 Janet Mavis Marcusse, 25 years in prison, three years supervised release, $12,651,244 in restitution. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}David Rex Albrecht, five years in prison \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}George Terrance Besser, 20 years in prison \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Diane Renae Boss, 10 years and one month in prison \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Wesley Myron Boss, 8 years and one month in prison \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Donald Maynard Buffin, Jr., 15 years in prison \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}William Edward Flynn, 9 years in prison \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Jeffery Alan Visser, 15 years in prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100 Evidence presented at trial showed the defendants represented that their investment activities had a long history of high monthly profits plus complete safety of a customer\rquote s principal, the organization operated as a charitable entity allowing their investors to receive their \ldblquote profits\rdblquote  tax free and that monthly interest checks of between 3-10% were paid making the scheme look legitimate. The investigation showed that the alleged international trading markets touted by the defendants did not exist; the monthly \ldblquote interest\rdblquote  checks were not generated from successful financial activity but were simply the victims\rquote  own money paid back to make the scheme look profitable; and the victims\rquote  principal was not kept safe from risk but was spent by the defendants for personal items. The defendants reported none of the income they received from victims\rquote  funds on their federal tax returns. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Hawaii Businessman Sentenced for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 24, 2005, in Honolulu, HI, Michael H. Boulware, the principal founder of Hawaiian Isles Enterprises, Inc. (HIE), was sentenced to 60 months in prison, followed by three years supervised release, and fined $25,000 for filing false individual income tax returns for 1989 through 1993 and evading income tax owed from 1994 through 1997. According to the evidence introduced at trial, from 1989 through 1997 Boulware used various schemes to divert approximately $10.2 million from HIE - a tobacco, coffee, water and vending machine business with annual sales of approximately $85 million - which he failed to report on his federal income tax returns. The government's evidence also showed that from 1995 through 1997, Boulware received income in excess of $1.7 million from nominee entities and bank accounts located in the Kingdom of Tonga and Hong Kong, which he failed to report on his income tax returns. The combined tax loss to the IRS and the State of Hawaii totaled $8,105,714.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Dayton Man Sentenced to Prison for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 19, 2005, in Dayton, OH, Walter M. Maken, a former employee of Joyce-Dayton Corporation and a freelance photographer, was sentenced to 30 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, 100 hours of community service, and ordered to pay the costs of prosecution. Maken was also ordered to pay $25,644 plus penalties and interest as restitution to the IRS. A jury convicted Maken after a two-week trial in April 2004 of one count of willful failure to file a federal income tax return for 1993 and one count of attempted evasion of 1994 federal income taxes. According to the indictment and the evidence introduced at trial, Maken failed to file a federal income tax return for the calendar years 1993 and 1994. In addition, Maken tried to mislead the IRS and conceal his income by submitting false W-4 forms to his employer, which claimed he was exempt from income tax withholdings. He also liquidated his retirement account without having any taxes withheld. Maken received about $70,000 in 1994 and had a tax due and owing of over $23,000. In addition, the government introduced evidence that Maken was involved at the time with anti-tax organizations such as Our One Supreme Court and the Freedom Connection, both now defunct. In convicting Maken, the jury rejected his defense that he believed the federal income tax laws did not apply to him. Evidence showed that Maken had not filed federal or state income tax returns from 1993 through 2004, and that he had not paid any federal or state income tax during those years.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Racine Man Sentenced to 28 Months Imprisonment for Tax Evasion and Perjury in Grand Jury Testimony\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 14, 2005 in Milwaukee, WI, Paul Gregory Koleske was sentenced to 28 months in prison to be followed by three years supervised release. Koleske was found guilty by jury in July 2005 of willfully attempting to evade federal income tax due and owing from him and his spouse for calendar year 1997 and for knowingly making a material false statement to a federal grand jury in June 2001 about a fraudulent investment scheme in which he was involved. Koleske failed to file a federal income tax return or otherwise pay income taxes for 1997, when he earned in excess of $200,000 from various sources, including income from a pyramid scheme, the sale of his long distance business, and early IRA distributions. By failing to file a tax return for that year, Koleske evaded the payment of more than $36,000 due and owing to the IRS. Further evidence at trial showed that Koleske attempted to evade the payment of his tax obligations by making false statements to IRS agents, by establishing and depositing investment income into fraudulent trust accounts, and by advancing various illegitimate theories about his status as a non-taxpayer - including that he was a \ldblquote non-resident alien,\rdblquote  that he was \ldblquote sovereign\rdblquote  and that he had \ldblquote expatriated\rdblquote  from United States citizenship.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Ex-Manager Gets Nine Years in FEMA Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 12, 2005, in St. Paul, MN, Patrick Iwan, former general manager of Kieger Enterprises (KEI), was sentenced to 108 months in prison and ordered to pay $1.2 million in restitution for his role in a fraud scheme to swindle disaster relief money. Iwan pled guilty in February 2005 to racketeering conspiracy, mail fraud and obstruction of justice. KEI and Edward Kieger, Jr., are scheduled to be sentenced on November 1, 2005. Edward Kieger pled guilty to racketeering conspiracy and obstruction of justice. KEI, represented by Edward Kieger, pled guilty to mail fraud and obstruction of justice. Iwan and other defendants admitted to engaging in a fraud scheme to enrich themselves by taking advantage of funds available for disaster relief efforts. Iwan, Kieger and KEI sought to enrich themselves and defraud their customers by exaggerating and inflating the amount of work being performed. From 1998 to July 2002, Iwan and others routinely submitted false bills and documents and engaged in an orchestrated pattern of fraud that bilked corporate customers. Iwan and others, on occasion, would pay bribes and kickbacks to employees of private companies. In return, those employees would use their influence to see that Kei was awarded contracts and that the employees\rquote  companies would pay the inflated bills submitted by KEI.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Husband and Wife Owners of Travel Agency Plead Guilty in Tax Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 3, 2005, in Los Angeles, CA, Helen Bak, aka Young-Soon Bahk, pleaded guilty to subscribing to a false 1999 joint federal income tax return and two counts of tax evasion for the corporate returns of A-Ju Tours, Inc. Her husband, Daniel Bak, aka Pyoung-Sik Bahk pleaded guilty to one count of subscribing to a false 2000 joint federal income tax return. Helen Bak, owner of A-Ju Tours, Inc., admitted that A-Ju Tours, Inc. failed to report gross business receipts of $2,356,593 on corporate tax returns for three fiscal years ending March 31, 2000. Taking into account business costs, expenses and other deductions, Helen Bak admitted that she willfully attempted to evade corporate income taxes totaling $162,259 by A-Ju Tours, Inc. for the same time period. Helen Bak also admitted that she diverted business receipts, mostly cash, into nominee bank accounts, including accounts in the name of her brother-in-law. Helen Bak, directly and through third parties, paid expenses of A-Ju Tours, Inc. with additional cash receipts of the corporation and she caused the corporation to not report those cash receipts and cash expenses on the corporation\rquote s 1998 through 2000 corporate federal income tax returns. Helen Bak also admitted that she obstructed justice, during the tax fraud investigation, by providing an IRS agent a falsely backdated receipt. Daniel Bak and Helen Bak admitted that on their personal income tax returns for 1998, 1999, and 2000, they underreported income received from A-Ju Tours, Inc. They also admitted that they failed to report, on their 1998 and 1999 personal income tax returns, gross rental receipts from a rental property that they purchased in a nominee name. They admitted that they had unreported income totaling $141,233 for 1998, 1999 and 2000, which resulted in a tax loss of $38,214.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Austin Man Sentenced for Income Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 30, 2005, in Austin, TX, Steven Dale Shanklin was sentenced to five years in prison followed by three years supervised release for not paying over $425,000 in taxes. Shanklin admitted that as an employee of Cisco Systems Sales and Services, Inc., during 1999, he earned approximately $770,504, but intentionally refused to pay income taxes on those earnings. To keep Cisco systems from withholding portions of his salary, Shanklin created a false and fraudulent W-4 which he signed and submitted claiming he was exempt from withholding. Shanklin failed to pay an estimated $239,221 in taxes to the IRS for 1999. By filing a false tax return for 1998 and failure to file tax returns for years 1999 \endash  2003, Shanklin owes the government more than $425,565 in back taxes, exclusive of penalties and interest. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Retired Banker Sentenced to 18 Months in Prison for Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 19, 2005, in Fresno, CA, Dennis Beguelin, retired banker and semi-retired owner of a telecommunications bureau, was sentenced to 18 months in prison, followed by one year supervised release and ordered to pay a $10,000 fine for his conviction of making a false income tax return. Beguelin was convicted on April 7, 2005, after a three day jury trial. Evidence at trial established that he failed to report a $200,000 capital gain received in 1999 on an investment of $100,000. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Multi-Million Dollar Embezzlement Scheme and Largest Seizure of Funds for Forfeiture in Delaware History\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 16, 2005, in Wilmington, DE, Josef F. Murphy was sentenced to 36 months in prison. Murphy pleaded guilty on June 16, 2005, to laundering 29 checks totaling $8,239,197 that he embezzled from his former employer. In pleading guilty, Murphy acknowledged he had taken nine additional fraudulent checks totaling $2,455,069. The 38 fraudulent checks embezzled by the defendant totaled $10,694,267. Murphy also pleaded guilty to using $87,000 of the proceeds of the crime towards the purchase of a $411,000 home in September 2004. According to the facts, an audit conducted by AMG revealed that Murphy, while employed as a credit collection manager, embezzled $10,694,267 by forging documents showing that various AMG customers were due refunds and then requisitioning checks payable to those customers. Murphy would request that the checks be given to him and emphasized that the checks should not be mailed to the customers in question. Murphy then deposited them in bank accounts he opened at Atlantic Bank of New York in the names of the payees on the checks. Investigators traced proceeds, which were frozen and seized for forfeiture, into accounts held by Murphy at TD Waterhouse and Ameritrade.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Stockton Man Sentenced to Seventy Months for Structuring Financial Transactions and Operating an Illegal Wire Transmitting Business\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 12, 2005, in Sacramento, CA, Sekharith Be was sentenced to 70 months in prison based on his convictions for structuring financial transactions and for operating an illegal wire transmitting business. He was also ordered to pay a fine of $12,500, and to forfeit his interest in various assets including currency, gems and jewelry. Be pled guilty and admitted that during the period from June 2000 to May 2004, he repeatedly directed others to break down cash deposits that were in excess of $10,000 into deposits of smaller amounts in order to evade the federal Currency Transaction Reporting ("CTR") requirement. Under the CTR requirement, banks are obligated to report cash transactions involving more than $10,000. Be also admitted that, between October 2001 and October 2003, he operated an illegal wire transmitting business. In total, Be admitted to wire transferring approximately $22.7 million from bank accounts he controlled in the United States to a bank account in Cambodia. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Connecticut Man Sentenced to Federal Prison for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 9, 2005, in New Haven, CT, Charles H. Pankow was sentenced to 12 months of in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, and ordered to pay a fine in the amount of $3,000 for tax evasion. According to court records, Pankow received wage income totaling more than $500,000 for the years 1998 through 2001, Pankow did not file federal individual income tax returns for those years and evaded the payment of taxes by maintaining a false Form W-4, claiming exemption from taxes and by filing Forms 4868 (extension of time to file) for the years 1998, 1999, and 2000. Pankow falsely claimed in the Forms 4868 that he had a total tax liability of zero for those years and, therefore, owed no taxes. As a result of this tax evasion scheme, Pankow failed to file returns for the tax years 1998 through 2001, failed to report total taxable income of $591,812 and failed to pay total taxes due and owing of $167,624.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Oklahoma Investment Advisor Sentenced to 10 years in Prison and Ordered to Pay Over $9 Million in Restitution for Securities Fraud Ponzi Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 7, 2005, in Oklahoma City, OK, Marsha Kay Schubert was sentenced on charges of money laundering. Schubert was sentenced to 120 months in federal prison and ordered to pay $9,114,747 in restitution to the victims of the fraud scheme. Schubert was a securities broker and investment advisor who operated the securities fraud ponzi scheme out of her Crescent, OK office. Schubert pled guilty in May 2005 to a one count information charging that on September 25, 2002, she engaged in money laundering when she transferred funds through a check of $97,704 drawn on an account at Farmers & Merchant Bank, knowing that the funds were derived from criminal conduct involving securities fraud. As part of the plea agreement, Schubert agreed that the offense involved violations of securities law and, at the time of the offense, the offense involved up to 250 victims. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Two Former Detroit Executives and Their Attorney Sentenced to Prison for Kickback Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 30, 2005, in Detroit, MI, two former executives with Thyssen, Inc., a Detroit steel-processing company, and their attorney were sentenced to prison for orchestrating a $6.5 million kickback scheme. Kenneth Graham, former Thyssen Chief Executive Officer, was sentenced to 75 months in prison, followed by 36 months supervised release. He must also pay restitution of $8.8 million, joint and several with the other defendants. Former Thyssen Executive Vice President Kyle Dresbach was sentenced to 58 months in prison, followed by 36 months supervised release. His restitution was set at $8.4 million, joint and several with the other defendants. Graham and Dresbach\rquote s attorney and CPA, Jerome Jay Allen received 34 months in prison, followed by 24 months supervised release. He must also pay restitution, joint and several, of $8 million. Graham and Dresbach caused Thyssen to enter into contracts with third-party vendors to purchase the multi-million dollar cranes and slitting machines at fraudulently inflated prices. They caused the vendors to submit fraudulently inflated invoices to Thyssen and paying inflated commissions to a consultant, who then paid kickbacks to more than a dozen entities controlled by Allen. Allen, in exchange for a portion of the kickbacks, laundered the proceeds of the mail fraud scheme through numerous bank accounts he controlled, including client trust accounts maintained by his law firms. During the ten year scheme, $6.5 million of kickbacks were paid to entities controlled by Allen, which he split with Graham and Dresbach, including using his client trust fund accounts to pay their personal expenses. As part of this conspiracy, Graham and Dresbach also conspired with Allen to file false individual income tax returns that did not report the kickback payments.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Information Systems Manager Sentenced to 41 Months in Prison for Embezzling Nearly $600,000 from Employer\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 29, 2005, in Trenton, NJ, Matthew McKenna was sentenced to 41 months in federal prison, followed by three years of supervised release and ordered to pay $592,034.50 in restitution and fines. McKenna pleaded guilty in January 2005 to charges of wire fraud and tax evasion. McKenna while employed as the head of the information systems for American Credit Alliance, Inc. (ACA) admitted he transferred $592,034 by directing approximately 176 unauthorized wire transfers from ACA's bank accounts. McKenna also admitted that he failed to report approximately $191,000 in taxable income on his 2002 U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, which he had taken from ACA. Resulting in additional tax due to the IRS of approximately $58,040. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b School Superintendent Sentenced to Federal Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 29, 2005, in Tulsa, Oklahoma, Susan Frazier was sentenced to 12 months in prison, followed by one year of supervised release following her April guilty plea to one count of filing a false Federal Income Tax Return for the year 2000. According to the plea agreement, Susan Frazier admitted that during the years 1998 through 2002, while employed as School Superintendent by Osage County Interlocal Cooperative (OCIC), she also operated a separate business, Grant Services. While operating Grant Services, she wrote and prepared grants for various school districts within Oklahoma and Mississippi. She was personally paid by these school districts for her services. Frazier reported income she received only if a Form 1099 was issued. Frazier, through Grant Services, also received income from software manufacturers including Vivendi Universal, Houghton Mifflin and Havas Interactive Inc. This income was commissions for the sale of their software in Oklahoma. Again Frazier only reported the income from the software companies that issued a Form 1099. For the tax years 1998 through 2002, Frazier she did not tell her CPAs about the additional income, therefore the funds was not reported. While operating Grant Services, Frazier did not report a total of $459,704 for the years 1998 through 2002 resulting in a criminal tax loss of $181,297, not including interest and penalties. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Owner of Investment Company Sentenced for Involvement in $8 Million Investment Scam\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 25, 2005, in Cincinnati, OH, John Patrick Kisor was sentenced to 90 months in prison, followed by three years supervised release and ordered to pay at least $6,901,674 in restitution to more than 140 victims of a fraudulent investment scheme he ran from January 1999 until September 2002. Kiser's sentence includes 90 months for one count each of wire fraud and money laundering, and 60 months for securities fraud. The sentences will be served concurrently. Kisor owned and operated PDK International, Inc. (PDK), which was originally set up as a Nevada Corporation, and later incorporated as PDK International LLC, A United States Virgin Islands Corporation. Kisor used PDK fraudulently to obtain funds through an investment scheme from individuals and entities believing their funds would be invested in a stock option trading program and other PDK investments. Kisor's victims included two groups of investors. One group, known as the PDK investors, consisted of Cincinnati area investors. There are approximately 30 PDK investors who suffered losses of at least $2.7 million on approximately $4 million they invested. The other group, known as the Agave Limited investors, consisted of investors from Ohio, Michigan, and various other locations. Agave Limited (Ltd) was an entity set up in the Cook Islands as a foreign private investment company. Approximately 100 Agave investors entrusted approximately $31 million with Kisor and lost at least $5 million. Most of these funds were invested through offshore bank accounts in the Cook Islands and Nevis/St. Kitts and wire transferred to brokerage and bank accounts controlled by Kisor in the United States. Kisor pled guilty on April 15, 2005 admitting to diverting $8,092,105.43 of investors' funds for his own personal use including the purchase of automobiles, paying for his personal living expenses and gambling. As part of the plea agreement Kisor also agreed to forfeiture of all of his assets up to a value of $8,092,105.43. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b River Boat Pilot Sentenced to Prison for Failure to File a Federal Income Tax Return\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On Wednesday, August 24, 2005, in New Orleans, LA, Roy Bowers was sentenced to a term of twelve months in prison to be followed by twelve months of supervised release. Bowers was also ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $79,715.00 to the IRS. This follows his May 26, 2005, guilty plea to count one of a three-count Bill of Information charging him with failure to file a federal income tax return as to the 1999 tax year. Bowers was a member of the New Orleans-Baton Rouge Steamship Pilots Association (NOBRA) employed as a river pilot. Bowers received income in the amount of $280,338.05 which exceeded the statutory minimum and that by reason of such gross income was required by law to file a federal income tax return.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Simsbury Contractor Sentenced to Federal Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 19, 2005, New Haven, CT, Kurt C. Claywell was sentenced to 66 months of in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, and fined $100,000 following his 2003 guilty plea to 22 counts of a 31-count Indictment that charged him with various federal tax and mail fraud offenses. According to documents filed with the Court and statements made in court, Claywell gave falsified documents to the IRS during a 1998 employment tax audit; deposited more than a million dollars into a fraudulent pension plan in the name of Inter-Island Holding and Development Corporation, a shell company he had chartered in the Bahamas; used corporate funds to pay for numerous personal expenses and then disguised these personal expenses as business expenses for several public works projects on which his company was a contractor; and failed to pay the employment taxes of employees that he paid off the books. Claywell also mailed more than $150,000 in fraudulent invoices to the Traveler's Insurance Company seeking reimbursement for fictitious nursing home care for his elderly father who, in fact, was still living at home. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Town & Country Woman Sentenced to Prison for Tax Evasion in Connection with a $2 Million Dollar Mortgage Fraud Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 11, 2005 in St. Louis, MO, Kimberly Williams was sentenced to 18 months in prison after pleaded guilty in May to one count of income tax evasion. According to facts stated in court, from June 1999 to December 2000, Williams participated in a $2 million mortgage fraud scheme. Williams purchased residential properties for the true value of the property, paying cash and putting the properties in the name of a third party. Near the time of the original purchase, Williams arranged for each property to be sold to another person, obtaining a mortgage to fund the sale at a significantly higher price than the true value of the property. To further the scheme, Williams submitted false loan applications to justify the mortgage being applied for and used most of the proceeds received for personal items. Williams intentionally did not file a return for tax year 2000 to conceal her income and to avoid having to pay taxes on that income. Williams transferred funds into accounts not in her name, and used the names of others to make it appear that she was not receiving the income from the sales. Williams had an adjusted gross income of approximately $195,082 and the tax due on that amount was $63,586.25. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former President of First Choice Management Services Sentenced to 168 Months in Prison; Ordered to Pay Over $20 Million in Restitution\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 5, 2005, in Hammond, IN, Gary Van Waeyenberghe, former president of First Choice Management Services, was sentenced to 168 months in prison to be followed by two years supervised release. Van Waeyenberghe was also ordered to pay a $5,400 special assessment and $20,976,660 in restitution. On April 25, 2005, Van Waeyenberghe was convicted on 54 counts of conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud, mail fraud, and money laundering. Evidence at trial showed that Van Waeyenberghe was president of First Choice Management Services from November 1999 through July 2000. First Choice marketed itself nationally as servicing consumer financial receivables in the form of two programs. Investors sent money to First Choice and First Choice represented that it would purchase receivables on their behalf. However, Van Waeyenberghe withdrew money or caused others to withdraw money on his behalf, transferred checks, obtained cashier\rquote s checks, or transferred by wire money that came from investors for his personal benefit. The total amount of loss sustained by the victims was more than $20,000,000 but less than $40,000,000.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Defendant Evaded Over $415,000 in Federal Income Taxes\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 4, 2005, in Pittsburgh, PA, Aaron Kamens was sentenced to 12 months and one day in prison and ordered to pay a $5,000 fine. According to information presented to the court, Kamens willfully failed to file his federal income tax returns for calendar years 1998, 1999, 2000, and 2001. The information also indicated that Kamens failed to pay $415,876 in federal income taxes over a period of 1982 through 2001. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Representative of Mobile Scottish Rite Temple Sentenced on Tax Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 2, 2005, in Mobile, AL, William Curtis Havens was sentenced to 18 months in prison to be followed by one year supervised release and ordered to pay a $100 special assessment. Havens pleaded guilty on February 11, 2005, to charges of subscribing to a false federal income tax return. According to court records, Haven failed to report approximately $213,000 in income on his 1998 through 2002 income tax returns on money he took from the Mobile Scottish Rite Temple while he served as its personal representative.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Mississippi Woman Sentenced for Coordinating Submission of False \ldblquote Fen-Phen\rdblquote  Claims and Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 1, 2005, in Jackson, MS, Eva Johnson was sentenced to 31 months in prison to be followed by three years supervised release and ordered to pay $750,000 in restitution. Johnson participated in a scheme to file false prescription documents on behalf of others in order to obtain funds from a $400 million settlement fund established following a suit against American Home Products, the maker of the diet drugs Redux and Pondomin, for injuries caused by fen-phen. Johnson pleaded guilty on December 29, 2004, to one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and one count of tax evasion.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Defendant Sentenced to 18 Months\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 29, 2005, in San Antonio, TX, Kimberly Ann Borges was sentenced to 18 months in prison to be followed by three years supervised release for wire fraud and engaging in a monetary transaction in criminally derived property. Borges who was employed by Applied Materials, Inc. (AMAT), a multi electronics firm, devised a scheme to steal and acquire money belonging to AMAT and used the proceeds for her own personal use and benefit. In order to accomplish her scheme Borges altered, re-routed, or forged invoices payable to vendors of AMAT, then caused AMAT to pay these false invoices and had the payments wire transferred to her own personal bank accounts.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Tacoma Gun Store Owner Pleads Guilty to Failing to File a Tax Return\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 29, 2005, in Tacoma, WA, Brian D. Borgelt, former co-owner of Bull\rquote s Eye Shooters Supply, pleaded guilty to failure to file a federal income tax return. Bull\rquote s Eye Shooters Supply gained national notoriety in 2002 when the Bushmaster rifle involved in the D.C. sniper case was linked to the store. In his plea agreement, Borgelt agreed to pay back taxes, penalties and interest for all counts alleged in the indictment which total $230,884.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Indianapolis Woman Sentenced to Federal Prison for Embezzlement, Identity Theft, and Filing False Tax Returns\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 27, 2005, in Indianapolis, IN, Catherine Strykowski was sentenced to 41 months in prison, followed by three years supervised release and ordered to pay $697,666 in restitution, following her guilty plea to uttering or possessing counterfeited checks, identity theft, and making false tax returns. From July 1995 until November 2003, Strykowski worked as a bookkeeper and office manager at an Indianapolis law firm. During the years 1999-2003, Strykowski embezzled and misappropriated over $500,000 by writing checks to herself from firm bank accounts and cashing the checks. To conceal her embezzlement Strykowski created and maintained a bogus check ledger showing that all of the checks she had written for herself were paid to third parties as business expenses. Strykowski also opened credit card accounts using the personal information of firm principals and used the credit cards for her personal use. Strykowski failed to report the income she embezzled on her tax returns for the tax years 2000-2004.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Oklahoman Bookkeeper Sentenced for Transportation of Stolen Monies and a False Tax Return\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 26, 2005, in Tulsa, OK, Tricia Ann Donley was sentenced to 56 months in prison and ordered to pay restitution of $1,304,924.98 for transporting amounts of money she embezzled from her employer, Aerial Data Service, Inc, (ADS) from Tulsa, OK to Arlington, Texas. Donley was also sentenced to 36 months in prison to run concurrently with the first sentence and ordered to pay restitution of $459,483 to the IRS for filing a false tax return. On April 27, 2005, Donley admitted that while she was employed as a bookkeeper for ADS, she was able to embezzle $1,304,924.98 without detection from 1998 through 2003. Donley admitted that she produced numerous ADS checks to herself that she knew she was not entitled to and she cashed some of them to hinder tracing the disposition of ADS funds. Donley also admitted to inflating her payroll checks by increasing the amount of ADS funds payable to her beyond what she was entitled to receive. Donley took $50,000 of the money she embezzled to her daughter who lived in Arlington, Texas. Donley admitted to not reporting the embezzled funds on her federal income tax returns for the years 1998 through 2003. Donley also agreed to forfeit property that she acquired with the proceeds of her crimes. Donley's vested balance of $126,085.94 in her ADS savings/retirement account was applied to the money judgment of $750,000. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Stockton Money Remitter Sentenced for Structuring\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 26, 2005, in Sacramento, CA, Ry Prok was sentenced to 30 months in prison followed by three years supervised release, in connection with her conviction for four counts of structuring cash deposits into Wells Fargo Bank. As part of her guilty plea, Prok admitted that Cambodia Wire Express was an entity she controlled which engaged in the business of transmitting money from the United States abroad. As part of the business, Prok maintained a bank account at Wells Fargo Bank. According to bank records, as well as the corroborative testimony of bank tellers, between January 7, 2003 and November 9, 2004, Prok made multiple cash deposits each above $9,500 but under $10,000 at the Wells Fargo Bank branch, frequently on successive days, for an aggregate amount of $829,186. As part of her plea, Prok expressly admitted that she structured deposits on four days, September 8, 2003, September 9, 2003, September 11, 2003, and September 15, 2003, each in an amount below $10,000 for the purpose of evading the CTR requirement. Also as part of the plea, the defendant agreed to forfeit over $49,000 in structured funds to the government. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former CPA Sentenced for Tax Evasion and Failing to File Personal Federal Income Tax Returns\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 14, 2005, in St. Paul, MN, James Armand Coryea II was sentenced to 21 months in prison to be followed by three years supervised release and ordered to pay all his back taxes as a condition of the release. Coryea was convicted at trial on three counts of tax evasion and three counts of failure to file tax returns. From 1997 through 1999, Coryea had taxable income of over $100,000 each year. During each of those years, Coryea failed to file federal income tax returns with the IRS, owing over $127,000 in state and federal back taxes. Additionally, Coryea falsely claimed to have filed tax returns for 1997 through 1999 and provided copies of returns for that period, however the federal tax returns had not been filed. Coryea also used some of his paychecks to buy more than $59,000 in cashier\rquote s check, in an attempt to avoid depositing the money into his bank account. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Hedge Fund Manager Sentenced to 41 Months for Tax Fraud of Approximately $1.5 Million\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 13, 2005, in San Francisco, CA, Randolph Bronte was sentenced to 41 months in prison and ordered to pay a fine of $150,000 and costs of prosecution of $21,453.22 for evading approximately $1.5 million in federal income taxes. After a six day trial, the jury returned a guilty verdict on 2 counts of tax evasion and 3 counts of filing false tax returns with the IRS for the years 1998, 1999 and 2000. Bronte filed tax returns falsely claiming operating losses in each year for a total of almost $1.6 million. Since 1994, the defendant has paid no income tax but purchased a house for approximately $7 million. The evidence at trial showed that during 1998 - 2000, Bronte failed to report $4,888,515 of income from his offshore hedge fund activities. The IRS made a jeopardy assessment against Bronte immediately after his conviction and has collected a total of $1,027,279.06 from the sale of one property and from a levy on an account at a Wells Fargo Bank.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Attorney Sentenced for Defrauding Clients of Approximately $512,000\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 7, 2005, in Kansas City, MO, David Leon Taylor, a former attorney, was sentenced to 24 months in prison to be followed by 6 months of home confinement. Taylor also was ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $511,860.44. Taylor was an attorney and sole shareholder in the law firm of Myers, Taylor, and Whitworth, P.C. The law firm maintained a trust account at Webb City Bank which contained funds received by the law firm from various clients to be held in trust until the funds were disbursed to the particular clients who were entitled to receive the funds. In his plea agreement, Taylor admitted that he illegally transferred money from that trust account into the law firm\rquote s operating accounts at other banks. Taylor further admitting to taking hundreds of thousands of dollars, meant to be held in trust, and converting the money for his own use on several dates.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Oklahoma Man Sentenced for $2.7 million Precious Metals Scheme and Income Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 6, 2005, in Tulsa, OK, Rusty K. Tuthill was sentenced to 63 months in prison and ordered to pay restitution of more than $2.7 million for his role in the theft of precious metals from Delphi Catalysts Corporation. Tuthill was also sentenced to 60 months in prison for income tax evasion to run concurrently with the first sentence. When released from prison, Tuthill will be on supervised release for three years. On February 16, 2005, Tuthill pleaded guilty to single counts of conspiracy, interstate transportation of stolen property, wire fraud, and money laundering by admitting he participated in a plot to steal platinum, nitrate, palladium and rhodium from Delphi Catalysts that was transported across state lines into Texas and Montreal, Canada and then sold to American Recycling Associates of Dallas, Texas, and KITCO Precious Metals of Montreal, Canada. Tuthill also admitted he transacted business in cash, cashier's checks and money orders in an attempt to hide or conceal his true income on his income tax return when he pleaded guilty to income tax evasion. Tuthill agreed to forfeit property and goods that he admitted were obtained with money gained through the criminal activity: a home in Owasso, Oklahoma, a 2004 Cadillac Escalade, a 2002 Lexus LX470, three all-terrain vehicles, $66,858 in cash, $100,000 in cashier's checks, and $117,293 in a bank account.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Man Sentenced in Federal Court for Mail Fraud and Tax Evasion Violations\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 30, 2005, in New Orleans, LA, Delbert Lee was sentenced to 87 months in prison followed by three years supervised release and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $1,396,030.73. Lee entered a guilty plea in September 2005 to charges of mail fraud, income tax evasion, failure to account and pay over withholding and social security taxes and use of an unauthorized access device. Lee worked as the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of a law firm from 1999 through March, 2004. As the CFO Lee had signatory authority over the firms general operating account. As part of the scheme Lee issued unauthorized checks drawn on the firm operating account made payable to him and to other unauthorized payees, including credit card companies. Over approximately five years Lee issued over 200 unauthorized checks. Lee also made unauthorized withdraws from the firms client trust account in order to pay personal expenses and other unauthorized charges. Lee fraudulently obtained from the Firm $769,806.72. During the period of time Lee embezzled money from the firm, he neglected to carry out the duty for accounting for and paying over to the IRS payroll and social security taxes on behalf of the firm. The amount of taxes and penalties owed by the firm to the IRS due to Lee\rquote s fraudulent conduct totaled $2,547,654.47. Finally, Lee failed to report his own income to the IRS for a number of tax years. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Defendant Sentenced to 48 Months in Prison for Effort to Steal Funds from IRS\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 21, 2005, in Memphis, TN, Lorray Broden was sentenced to 48 months in prison to be followed by three years supervised release. Broden was also ordered to pay restitution to the IRS totaling $362,400. Broden pleaded guilty on March 23, 2005 to ten counts of theft of government property, ten counts of wire fraud, one count of conspiracy and six counts of money laundering. According to the indictment, Broden and others conspired to defraud the IRS of money and stole money of the IRS by diverting tax refunds in the amount of $351,068 and by attempting to divert an additional $154,949 of tax refunds due to taxpayers by routing the tax refunds to bank accounts controlled by the defendants.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former St. Louis Man Sentenced on Fraud and Money Laundering Charges in Connection with Two Million Dollar Investment Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 17, 2005, in St. Louis, MO, Rick D. Shirrell was sentenced to 51 months in prison for one felony count each of wire fraud and money laundering and ordered to pay $2,070,000 in restitution. In March 2005, Shirrell admitted during his plea that he paid three people a total of $205,500, a portion of which was commissions for referring lenders to him. Between November 1998 and March 1999, at least 13 lenders sent a total of $1,760,000 by means of wire transfers to Anguilla in the name of Phoenix Financial LTD. During 1998 and 1999, Shirrell, the founder and director of two companies, Phoenix Financial LTD in Anguilla, British West Indies and Financial Consulting Group, Inc. in the state of Missouri, induced individuals to lend money to his Phoenix Financial LTD company in Missouri, for a period of one year and one month and promised to pay interest to such lenders at 120 percent per year. Shirrell represented to the lenders that all of the money was to be used to purchase U.S. bonds or other comparable obligations and that all of their money would be insured. In addition, Shirrell told the lenders that the government bonds or other obligations purchased were to be used as collateral to obtain more money to be used to trade financial instruments in order to generate profits to repay the loans and earn interest. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Multi-Million Dollar Embezzlement Scheme and Largest Seizure of Funds for Forfeiture in Delaware History\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 16, 2005, in Wilmington, DE, Josef F. Murphy pleaded guilty to laundering 29 checks totaling $8,239,197 that he embezzled from his former employer. In pleading guilty, Murphy acknowledged he had taken nine additional fraudulent checks totaling $2,455,069. The 38 fraudulent checks embezzled by the defendant totaled $10,694,267. Murphy also pleaded guilty to using $87,000 of the proceeds of the crime towards the purchase of a $411,000 home in September 2004. According to the facts, an audit conducted by AMG revealed that Murphy, while employed as a credit collection manager, embezzled $10,694,267 by forging documents showing that various AMG customers were due refunds and then requisitioning checks payable to those customers. Murphy would request that the checks be given to him and emphasized that the checks should not be mailed to the customers in question. Murphy then deposited them in bank accounts he opened at Atlantic Bank of New York in the names of the payees on the checks. Investigators traced proceeds, which were frozen and seized for forfeiture, into accounts held by Murphy at TD Waterhouse and Ameritrade. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Birmingham Dry Cleaner\rquote s Diverted Income Scheme Lands Him in Jail\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 14, 2005, in Detroit, MI, Riza Selenica, was sentenced to 15 months in prison, followed by two years supervised release, fined $30,000 and must cooperate with the IRS in filing all of his tax returns and pay all back taxes. From 1996 through 1998, Selenica owned and operated a dry cleaning and shirt laundering business. According to court records, several customers paid for his laundry service in the forms of checks. Rather than deposit the checks into his business bank account and report it as income, Salenica took the checks to a local check cashing service where he negotiated for cash. Selenica filed false 1996, 1997, and 1998 federal income tax returns claiming $0 income or, as on the 1998 return, showing income of $48,747, when his joint taxable income with his spouse during those years totaled over $980,000. Total tax loss to the IRS was approximately $325,000.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Three Sentenced for Federal Criminal Tax Offenses\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 6, 2005, in San Diego, CA, Lonnie R. Divine, Yvonne R. Ruel and Deanna M. McKinnon were sentenced for federal criminal tax offenses. Divine, pleaded guilty to tax evasion and was sentenced to serve 18 months in prison, ordered to pay a $6,000 fine, and serve three years supervised release. Divine operated a door-to-door business that earned over $11 million in gross receipts from 1993 through 1997. Divine evaded his taxes by converting a substantial portion of the gross receipts to cash, often after transferring the money through several bank accounts; transferring gross receipts of the business from business bank accounts to personal bank accounts for non business purposes; and using the gross receipts of the business to make payments of about $1.8 million to his casino accounts in Las Vegas and Tahoe, NV; acquire assets and invest funds; and disguise his ownership in assets. Also sentenced were Divine's wife, Yvonne Ruel receiving 5 months in prison, followed by 5 months home confinement and ordered to pay a $2,000 and fine and daughter, Deanna McKinnon, who received three months in prison, followed by three months home confinement and ordered to perform 192 hours of community service both admitting to failing to file a tax return on income earned from Divine\rquote s business. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Idaho Falls Day-Trader Sentenced; Investors Lost More Than $1 Million\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 6, 2005, in Boise, ID, Robert O. McClung was sentenced to 37 months in prison to be followed by three years supervised release and ordered to pay $1,264,821 in restitution to the victims of his scheme. McClung operated RRLM and Spenlee, Inc., both Nevada corporations doing business in Idaho Falls. Approximately 100 clients invested a total of $1.7 million on the promise of a good rate of return and minimal risk through day trading. However, McClung did not do the trading he promised investors, but diverted much of the money to his own personal use. The total loss to investors was more than $1.2 million. To keep the investments coming in McClung prepared monthly statements for each investor, falsely representing that he engaged in day trading on a regular basis and that he was earning money for them. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Four North Texans Sentenced for Conspiracy to Defraud IRS\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 2, 2005, in Sherman, TX, Ricky Don Kincaid was sentenced to 36 months in prison and ordered to pay $1,188,862.40 in restitution. On June 30, 2005, Charles William Luckie Johnson, Jr. was sentenced to 33 months in prison and ordered to pay $867,720.21 in restitution; and Nhat Hoai Ngo was sentenced to 24 months in prison and ordered to pay $867,720.21 in restitution. On July 1, 2005, Demian John Cratty was sentenced to five years probation with a period of six months home confinement and ordered to pay $374,138.08 in restitution. According to court documents, the defendants conspired to defraud the IRS by actively impeding and impairing the United States Department of the Treasury, Internal Revenue Service, in the ascertainment, assessment and collection of both business and personal income tax liabilities. The men admitted acquiring investment monies from various investors, converting those funds to corporate and personal income, and failing to accurately report their personal federal income tax liability, and that of Peyton Waller Financial Group ("PWFG"), the Wilcox Entities, their employees, investors, and contractors for the tax years 2001 and 2002. The men also admitted taking affirmative steps to prevent the IRS from discovering their personal income, and the income and/or losses to PWFG, the Wilcox Entities, their employees, contractors, and investors. The men also admitted that, on behalf of PWFG, they solicited and received approximately $680,000 in investment funds to be used for foreign currency trading, of which $218,118 was misapplied and converted to their use and that of others, and solicited and received, on behalf of the Wilcox Entities, approximately $517,618 to be used for oil and gas investments, of which $478,013 was misapplied and converted to their personal use and that of others.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b President of Steel Company Sentenced on Tax Evasion Conviction\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 2, 2005, in Amarillo, TX, David L. Hirschfeld, president and chief executive officer of Hirschfeld Steel Company, Inc., was sentenced to 12 months in prison and ordered to pay a $20,000 fine. Hirschfeld pleaded guilty in February 2005 to a one-count information charging him with income tax evasion for tax year 1996. As part of the Hirschfeld Steel's normal business operations, scrap metal was a by-product of its manufacturing process and had to be discarded. Hirschfeld Steel sold the scrap metal to Acme Iron and Metal Company (Acme). On eight occasions during 1996, David Hirschfeld met with employees of Acme to receive payment for the scrap metal that had been collected by his company. Acme paid for the scrap metal by check and in cash. The cash paid to David Hirschfeld by Acme was never deposited to Hirschfeld Steel's accounts nor treated as income on Hirschfeld Steel's books and records. The total amount paid in cash during calendar year 1996 was more than $140,000. After accounting for amounts of cash that he expended for deductible business expenses, David Hirschfeld received a total of $67,049 of cash from Acme that he knew should have been included as income on his 1996 Federal individual income tax return, but he did not report it. According to court document, during the period 1996 through 2000, David Hirschfeld personally received a total of $240,514.16 of cash from Acme that he never reported as income on his 1996 through 2000 Federal individual tax returns, resulting in a total of $67,343.96 taxes evaded.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Arlington Couple Sentenced to 7 Years in Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 20, 2005 in Fort Worth, TX, Charles Kenton Ford and Bivian Kathryn Brumley were both sentenced to seven years imprisonment and three years supervised release. Both were also ordered to pay restitution to the United States in excess of $300,000. Both Ford and Brumley were convicted in February 2005 by a bench trial presided over by Judge McBryde on one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States. In addition, Ford was convicted of four counts of aiding and assisting in the preparation of false and fraudulent documents and one count of making and subscribing a false document. Brumley was also convicted on two counts of aiding and assisting in the preparation of a false and fraudulent document and two counts of making and subscribing to a false document. Ford and Brumley, who represent themselves to the public as husband and wife, owned Assets Trusts & Associates in Arlington, Texas. Ford and Brumley marketed a plan to their clients, purporting to get them out of the federal income tax system based on a false claim of non-resident alien status. For a fee of between $400 and $1,000, Ford and Brumley assisted their clients in the filing of false IRS Forms W-4 with the client's employers to stop federal income tax withholding from the clients' wages. They also instructed their clients to stop filing federal income tax returns and to stop paying federal income taxes.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Kennard Sentenced in $9 Million Fraud Against Churches\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 5, 2005, in Atlanta, GA, Abraham Kennard was sentenced to 17 years and three months in prison, followed by three years supervised release. Kennard was also ordered to pay $7.9 million in restitution to victims and more than $598,000 in restitution to the IRS. With penalties and interest the IRS restitution totaled over $1 million. On February 7, 2005 Kennard was found guilty on 116 counts of income tax evasion, money laundering, conspiracy to commit money laundering, and mail fraud. Kennard defrauded more than 1,600 churches and other non-profit organizations out of over $9 million between May 2001 and October 2002. Evidence at trial showed Kennard siphoned off approximately $3 million of the fraud proceeds for himself, his girlfriend, and numerous members of his family. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Americable Comptroller Sentenced to 78 Months in Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 3, 2005, in Miami, FL, Alice Pirchesky was sentenced to 78 months in prison and ordered to forfeit $200,000. Pirchesky was convicted on 72 counts of an Indictment charging her with offenses arising out of schemes to defraud the IRS, Dept. of Defense (DOD) and numerous cable television networks, and to launder the proceeds of the fraud. Her co-defendant, Charles Hermanowski, was arrested in January 2002 in Australia and remains in custody pending extradition proceedings. The charges against Pirchesky arose from an investigation that focused on various frauds conducted in the course of the operations of Americable International, Inc., and other affiliated cable television companies controlled by Hermanowski. In the early 1990s, the DOD began to close various military bases in the United States, including the bases where Americable companies had provided cable television service. Pirchesky prepared termination settlement proposals which included costs that were based on false invoices for work that had never been performed and costs that never had been incurred by the Americable companies. In response to a DOD auditor\rquote s request for records, Pirchesky provided the auditor with false invoices totaling approximately $8 million. Pirchesky would oversee the entry of false invoices into company records. The false invoices yielded approximately $40 million in checks during 1995 and 1996 that Hermanowski falsely endorsed and deposit into bank accounts he controlled. Hermanowski did not report any of these funds on his federal income tax returns for 1995 and 1996. Pirchesky\rquote s false invoices allowed Americable to claim $5 million in false depreciation deductions for 1996. Pirchesky met with accountants who prepared the tax returns for the Americable companies and provided false records that resulted in the inflated depreciation deductions. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Postal Employee Sentenced in Tax Evasion Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On April 18, 2005, in Nashville, TN, Larry Emmett Brown, was sentenced to 15 months in prison, followed by 3 years of supervised release and ordered to pay a fine of $16,000. As a condition of his supervised release, Brown was ordered to pay back taxes to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in an amount to be determined by the IRS and to timely file any required income tax returns and provide copies to the probation office. Prior to the start of the trial, the government filed a motion preventing Brown from raising any frivolous tax arguments, declaring that these frivolous arguments are well-worn and not supported by case law. Evidence presented during the trial established that Brown failed to file income tax returns with the IRS for the calendar years 1998, 1999, 2000, and 2001, even though he received wages during those years requiring him to file such returns. Additionally, Brown filed four false W-4 Forms with the U.S. Postal Service, claiming he was exempt from federal withholding.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Redding Business Owner Sentenced To Imprisonment for Six Years on Criminal Tax Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On April 13, 2005, in Sacramento, CA, Walter A Thompson was sentenced to serve 72 months in prison and fined $7,500. Following his conviction in January for two counts of filing false claims for refunds, filing a false amended individual income tax return, ten counts of willfully failing to deduct, withhold, collect and pay over income and social security taxes from his employees. Thompson owned and operated Cencal, an aviation and flight bag manufacturing business. Cencal employed a number of hourly wage workers who were predominantly seamstresses, production workers and office workers. In July 2000, Thompson removed all of the employees from the taxpayer roles by no longer withholding employment taxes from wages and salaries, by not filing Forms 941, and by not providing employees or the IRS with annual wage or other income statements, Forms W-2 or 1099, as required by law.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Prominent Estate Planner and Tax Specialist Sentenced to 18 Months for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On April 12, 2005, in San Francisco, CA, Owen George Fiore was sentenced to serve 18 months in prison for income tax evasion. In addition to the prison sentence, Fiore was sentenced to three years supervised release and fined $25,000 and ordered to make restitution for the entire tax loss, $626,623, which he has already paid. Fiore knowingly filed a false and fraudulent federal income tax return for the tax year 1999 understating his taxable income by $522,594 and understating his income tax due the government by $214,420. In the plea agreement, Fiore agreed that the total tax loss to the government is $626,623. That amount includes the tax loss for 1999, for which Fiore pleaded guilty, and the understatements of tax for 1996, 1997 and 1998, which were charged in the indictment.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Fiorini Sentenced to 12 Years in Prison for Fraud Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On April 8, 2005, in Dayton, OH, George J. Fiorini II was sentenced to 144 months in prison and three years supervised release, ordered to pay $4,663,930 in restitution to the victims and $681,345 in restitution to the IRS, and fined $15,000 for operating an investment scheme that cheated more than 170 investors between 1997 and 2002. Fiorini, a former insurance and investment salesman, pleaded guilty in August 2004 to one count each of interstate transportation of stolen property, mail fraud and filing a false return. The tax charge is connected to Fiorini\rquote s 1998 federal income tax return on which he failed to report $1,885,367 in income. A federal grand jury indicted Fiorini in May 2003 on fraud and tax charges connected to his operation of the Fiorini Agency in Cincinnati. Through his agency, Fiorini advertised and promoted the 10% Income Plus Plan as a risk-free investment that featured a guaranteed principal, no fee for withdrawals, no administration fees, no tax on accumulated interest, and a guaranteed rate of interest. Instead of investing the money, however he used the funds on personal expenses for himself, his family members, and his friends. He made payments to investors with funds from subsequent investors operating what is commonly referred to as a Ponzi scheme. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Orange County Nail Salon Owner Sentenced to Prison for Hiding Income from IRS\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On April 4, 2005, in Los Angeles, CA, Gary A. Schmidt was sentenced to 12 months in prison, ordered to pay a $3,000 fine and to pay all back taxes due to the IRS. Schmidt\rquote s wife, Kieu Schmidt, was sentenced to probation after she pleaded guilty to failing to file forms 1099 for employees. Schmidt pleaded guilty in Dec. 2003 to one count of signing a 1997 income tax return that failed to report all of his income from his nail-salon business. According to an IRS search warrant affidavit, when Schmidt and his wife made deposits into their business bank accounts during the years 1996 to 1999, they also took out a total of over $1.4 million in \ldblquote less cash\rdblquote  from these deposits. A total of over $2.3 million was deposited into their business bank accounts during these years that court documents show consisted primarily of third party checks and credit card charges. According to the affidavit, the Schmidts deposited over $320,000 in cash into their personal bank accounts from 1996 to 1999, purchased a new Mercedes Benz in 1997, a second home in Indian Wells in 1999 and a new Ford pick-up truck in 1999. Income tax returns filed by Schmidt reported total gross receipts of only $44,843 for the same years. As a result of the unreported income, Schmidt admitted in his plea agreement that he failed to pay over $243,000 in additional taxes to the IRS. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Owner of Construction Company Sentenced in Housing Fraud Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 30, 2005, in Birmingham, AL, Eugene McReath was sentenced to 41 months in prison followed by a supervised release of three years and ordered to pay restitution of $1,029,053 to HUD and $306,624 to the Internal Revenue Service. Five co-conspirators who assisted McReath in carrying out his scheme to defraud were sentenced last year for their participation in the conspiracy. The indictment charged that McReath was the owner of Southern Construction and Investments, a company in the business of buying, renovating and selling houses for profit. Many of the houses sold by agents of Southern Construction were financed with FHA insured loans. HUD did not insure home loans if the seller provided the down payment or if the buyer had an insufficient credit history. To fulfill its advertised policy of selling houses for no down payment, Southern Construction would pay the down payment for the home buyers. McReath and agents of Southern Construction would then cause gift letters and other documents to be submitted to HUD that falsely represented that the money used for the down payment came from a relative of the home buyer, not Southern Construction. During the course of the conspiracy, false documents were submitted to HUD in connection with at least 44 loans totaling approximately $2.5 million. These loans went into default, causing the United States to suffer a loss exceeding $1 million. From 1997 through 2001, McReath withdrew approximately $1million from Southern Construction\rquote s bank account, representing his share of the profit from the scheme, without filing tax returns or paying income tax.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Owner of a Pet Supply Company Sentenced to 18 Months in Prison for Scheme to Shield Income from the IRS\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 21, 2005, in Trenton, NJ, Herbert Axelrod was sentenced to 18 months in prison, followed by one year supervised release and ordered to pay a fine of $40,000 for aiding and abetting the filing of a false return by the company\rquote s former vice president. Axelrod, the former owner and director of T.F.H. Publications, Inc. (T.F.H.), pleaded guilty in December 2004 admitting that in order to conceal severance payments for Gary Hersch, the company\rquote s senior vice president of sales and marketing, he assisted with the deposit of severance payments into Swiss bank accounts. Axelrod admitted that Hersch had an employment contract calling for a total of $1.5 million in severance payments made over several years in the event of his termination. Axelrod admitted to assisting Hersch establish the Swiss accounts when he knew Hersch would use the accounts to avoid the payment of taxes due to the IRS. Axelrod also admitted that he agreed with Hersch that no income taxes would be incurred on the severance payments and the T.F.H. would not issue Forms W-2 or 1099. Furthermore, Axelrod also admitted that as part of Hersch\rquote s severance, he assisted in the procedure whereby the proceeds of some checks due to T.F.H. were ultimately deposited into Hersch\rquote s Swiss bank accounts. Axelrod admitted that a total of more than $775,000 of severance payments were deposited into Hersch\rquote s Swiss bank accounts.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Pharmacist and Stepfather Sentenced in Internet Pharmacy Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 16, 2005, in Dallas, TX, Clayton H. Fuchs, was sentenced to 20 years imprisonment. Fuchs\rquote  stepfather, Eugene Gonzales was also sentenced to 30 months. Clayton H. Fuchs, a pharmicist, was found guilty on all counts of a federal superseding indictment that charged various felony offenses related to his operation of a web-based pharmacy and the illegal dispensing of controlled substances. The jury found Fuchs guilty on all six counts charged that included conspiracy to dispense a controlled substance, operating a Continuing Criminal Enterprise and money laundering. At the trial, Eugene Gonzales, was found guilty of conspiracy to launder money with Fuchs. Fuchs and the other defendants were also ordered to forfeit the proceeds they acquired with the illegal funds.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Two Defendants Sentenced to Terms of More Than 17 Years in Prison in Nationwide Multi-Million Dollar Investment Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 15, 2005, in Miami, FL, Larry E. Schwartz, Raphael Raymond Levy, a/k/a R. Ray Levy and Edward Meyer were sentenced on charges arising from their involvement in a nationwide multi-million dollar investment fraud case. Schwartz was sentenced to 210 months imprisonment and three years of supervised release; Levy was sentenced to 235 months imprisonment and three years supervised release. Restitution was ordered for Schwartz and Levy, but the amount will be determined at a future hearing. Edward Meyer was sentenced to 48 months imprisonment and three years supervised release and was ordered to permanently relinquish his Certified Public Accountant license. All or some of the defendants were convicted of fraud conspiracy, mail fraud and transportation of stolen property, conspiracy to commit money laundering and various money laundering counts. The defendants unlawfully enriched themselves by causing people to send money to U.S. Capital Funding, Inc., and First Capital Services, Inc. based on false representations and concealed material facts. Schwartz and Levy recruited people to invest in Promissory Notes, representing that the money would be invested in various types of accounts receivables. Levy recruited hundreds of insurance agents throughout the country to solicit approximately $48 million to be sent to U.S. Capital Funding from approximately 400 investors residing in Florida, New York, Indiana, Virginia, Maine, New Hampshire, and Washington. According to evidence presented in court, of the $48 million, approximately $33 million represented obliged moneys between US Capital and First Capital. The entire $33 million was lost. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Vacaville Woman Sentenced to Over 7 Years In Prison for Embezzling Over $12 Million from Bank of America\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 14, 2005, in San Francisco, CA, Michele Serrao was sentenced to serve 87 months in federal prison, five years supervised release, $900 special assessment, and was ordered to forfeit $11,849,269, jointly and severally with her co-defendant Bryan Douglas Rosenquist, for embezzling over $12 million from Bank of America. From 1998 through 2001, the defendants embezzled over $12 million in cash from the vault belonging to Bank of America to support gambling at casinos and the purchase, of among other things: thoroughbred race horses for their horse racing business, expensive vehicles, and jewelry. The defendants concealed their embezzlement by creating false balance sheets which they sent to Bank of America. Serrao was convicted of all but one count, along with her co-defendant Rosenquist, who was convicted of all counts. The charges included: one count of conspiracy to embezzle funds belonging to the Bank of America, one count of bank fraud, one count of conspiracy to money launder, numerous counts of money laundering and several counts of tax evasion. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b California Man Sentenced to 27 Months in Prison for Evading Taxes on $5 Million of Income from High-Tech Businesses and Obstructing Justice\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 14, 2005, in San Francisco, CA, Ulysses Q. Nguyen was sentenced to over two years in prison for evading taxes on over $5 million of income. Nguyen admitted that he evaded taxes from two computer-related businesses he operated in San Jose from 1997 to 2001 and unsuccessfully attempted to conceal the income from the IRS by lying to federal agents and submitting fictitious business receipts. Nguyen was sentenced to a term of 27 months imprisonment, a term of supervised release of three years, a restitution order in the amount of $1,277,434 to the Internal Revenue Service, and a special assessment of $325. On Sept. 13, 2004, Nguyen pleaded guilty to four counts, including income tax evasion, willful failure to file an individual tax return, obstruction of justice, and making a false statement to two IRS agents. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Oklahoma City Bookkeeper Sentenced to 37 Months in Federal Prison for Failing to Pay Taxes for His Business Clients\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 10, 2005, in Oklahoma City, OK, Rhett E. Arterburn was sentenced to 37 months in federal prison and ordered to pay $501,891 in restitution for failing to truthfully account for and pay more than $500,000 in taxes he collected from his business clients. Arterburn operated Reaco Bookkeeping Systems, which provided employment tax services to numerous small businesses. Arterburn admitted during his guilty plea that over a four year period, he collected more than $500,000 from seven clients and used the money for his own benefit, rather than paying his clients\rquote  federal withholding, Social Security and unemployment taxes to the IRS.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Owner of Temporary Employment Agency Sentenced on Tax and Mail Fraud Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 9, 2005, in Portland, ME, Oeun Thoim, former president and owner of Sea Temp., was sentenced to 33 months in prison followed by three years supervised release in connection with tax and mail fraud charges. Thoim pled guilty in November 2004 to evading personal income taxes, causing false employment tax returns to be filed with the IRS, and mail fraud. Thoim admitted to paying some employees with cash "under the table," and did not report their wages to the IRS resulting in an under payment of employment taxes. Thoim further admitted to failing to declare on his personal income tax returns all the income he received from Sea Temp. The total tax deficiency resulting from Thoims illegal activities during the period 1999 through 2003 was between $950,000 to $1.5 million. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Znetix Stock Salesmen Sentenced for Fraud and Conspiracy\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 4, 2005, Seattle, WA, Larry L. Beaman, Michael J. Culp and Harvey W. Kuiken were sentenced to lengthy prison terms for multiple felonies relating to their sale of stock in Znetix, Inc., Health Maintenance Centers, Inc., Cascade Pointe LLC, and affiliated entities. Beaman was sentenced to 12 \'bd years in prison, 3 years of supervised release and $5,264,366 in restitution, Culp was sentenced to 8 years in prison and 3 years of supervised release, and Kuiken was sentenced to 9 years in prison and 3 years of supervised release. Restitution will be determined at a later hearing for Culp and Kuiken. Beaman was convicted of 26 felony counts, including conspiracy, securities fraud, wire fraud, and money laundering. Culp was convicted of 12 counts, including conspiracy, securities fraud, and money laundering. Kuiken was convicted of 14 counts, including Conspiracy, Securities Fraud, and Engaging in Unlawful Monetary Transactions. \par
Over the course of about seven years, Kevin L. Lawrence, the conspiracy's ringleader currently serving a 20 year sentence, and his co-conspirators, including Beaman, Culp, Kuiken, and six additional defendants defrauded thousands of investors out of approximately $91 million through a massive conspiracy involving false representations and failures to disclose truthful and accurate information in connection with the sale of the securities of Znetix, Inc., Health Maintenance Centers, Inc., Cascade Pointe, LLC, and affiliated entities.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Political Contributor and Developer Charles Kushner Sentenced to Maximum 24 Months for Witness Retaliation and Other Crimes\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 3, 2005, in Newark, NJ, Charles Kushner, real estate developer and political contributor, was sentenced to 24 months in prison and fined $40,000 after pleading guilty in August 2004 to 16 counts of assisting in the filing of false tax returns, one count of retaliating against a cooperating witness and one count of making false statements to the FEC. Kushner admitted then that, as chairman of Kushner Companies, he assisted in filing false tax returns claiming over $1 million in partnership charitable contributions as office expenses, causing losses to the IRS of between $200,000 and $325,000. Kushner further admitted at his plea hearing that he devised a scheme to retaliate against a cooperating witness and to making false statements to the Federal Election Commission which allocated campaign contributions to certain individuals who had no knowledge that contributions were being made in their names and had not consented to him making the contributions. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Michael Titzer Sentenced Again for Tax Charges and Bank Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 3, 2005, in Indianapolis, IN, Michael Titzer was sentenced to 10 years in federal prison and ordered to pay $34,553 in restitution for charges including the evasion of taxes and bank fraud. In addition to the 10 years, Titzer was sentenced to an additional 41 months to serve for his escape from the Federal Prison Camp in Marion, Illinois. Upon release from prison Titzer will be placed on three years supervised release. The Information charged Titzer, while acting as an accountant for an Evansville based business, with evading the payment of approximately $370,000 in quarterly employment tax withholdings which he in turn used for his personal use and benefit. The second count charged Titzer with cashing a check in the amount of $34,553.63 from the same business after altering the payee line of the check from \ldblquote IRS\rdblquote  to \ldblquote Income Taxes and More\rdblquote  without the consent of the payor in violation of bank fraud statutes.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Memphis Man Sentenced In $3.5 Million Securities Fraud Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 3, 2005, in Memphis, TN, Ricardo Gant was sentenced to ten years in prison and ordered to pay $3.5 million in restitution for tax evasion and securities fraud. Gant operated the scheme from 1997 through 2001 from his business, Capital Plus Worldwide Financial Services, Inc., by soliciting individuals and churches to invest in "Joint Venture Partnerships" that purportedly guaranteed the safety and security of the investment, and promised gains of 60 percent to 200 percent annually. The investigation revealed that these funds were not invested but were used by Gant to build a new home, invest in horses, purchase antiques, travel within and outside the United States, and were converted to his own personal investment portfolios. The scheme was a version of a Ponzi scheme. The defendants preyed on church members and people in the African American community, recruiting investors by claiming that they shared religious beliefs, values and ideas. This type of fraud is called "affinity fraud" and is difficult to prosecute because the victims are reluctant to make charges against someone who allegedly shares their beliefs, values and ideas. Victim investments ranged from $2,000 to $200,000.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Atlanta Business Owner Michael Morrison Sentenced for Income Tax Evasion and Lying to SEC\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 28, 2005, in Atlanta, GA, Michael S. Morrison was sentenced to 46 months in federal prison, followed by three years supervised release, ordered to pay restitution of $1.4 million, and perform 120 hours of community service for filing false income tax returns and lying to the Securities and Exchange Commission. In March of 2002, Morrison submitted to the IRS a Corporation Income Tax Return (Form 1120) of his company for the tax year ending June 30, 2001, which was false and fraudulent. Morrison reported to the IRS that the company's total income was $6,115,985. At sentencing the government's evidence showed that over three years Morrison under-reported income by approximately $2.3 million which resulted in a tax loss of $1.4 million to the United States. The evidence also showed that in April of 2002, Morrison submitted a fraudulent Individual Income Tax Return (Form 1040) for the 2001 tax year. This tax return indicated that Morrison's "Other Income" for the 2001 tax year was $4,134, when in fact it was approximately $1.4 million. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Employee Sentenced on Tax Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 28, 2005, in Miami, FL, Istvan Fazekas was sentenced to 17 months in prison, followed by two years of supervised release, and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $50,991. Fazekas pleaded guilty to charges of conspiracy and filing false income tax returns for the years 1999 and 2000. Employed as an engineer for the Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Department, Fazekas was responsible for reviewing, evaluating, and approving fire sprinkler plans. At the same time, Fazekas was also the sole signatory on bank accounts for two fire sprinkler design companies from which he received substantial income. Fazekas understated his income generated by and received from the fire sprinkler design companies.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Department of Defense Contractor Sentenced\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 25, 2005, in Ft. Pierce, FL, Kimberly Ganatra was sentenced to 33 months in prison, followed by three years' supervised release and ordered to pay the sum $526,613 as restitution. Ganatra previously pleaded guilty to an eleven count Indictment, charging her with one count of conspiracy; eight counts of mail fraud; one count of filing a false tax return; and two counts of tax evasion. Ganatra and her husband, through a series of nominee companies, bid on and were awarded almost 1,000 Department of Defense (DOD) supply contracts. Ganatra, through the nominee companies, purchased supplies to fulfill the DOD contracts from merchants. As part of the conspiracy, most of the supplies were purchased on credit by Ganatra through the nominee companies. Ganatra and her co-conspirators provided the supplies to the DOD in fulfillment of the contracts and were paid by DOD. Instead of paying on the contracts, however, Ganatra and her co-conspirators did not pay the suppliers from whom they had purchased the necessary parts. During her change of plea hearing, Ganatra admitted that her actions caused a direct loss to the suppliers amounting to between $350,000 - $500,000. The three tax charges to which Ganatra pleaded guilty involved her failure to report and pay taxes on approximately $592,504 in adjusted gross income she received from the DOD and failed to pay approximately $168,132 in taxes due and owing on this income.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Detroit Man Sentenced for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 24, 2005, in Grand Rapids, MI, Dr. Daniel Smalley was sentenced to one year and one day in prison, followed by two years supervised release based upon his conviction for tax evasion. Smalley pleaded guilty on November 24, 2004, to an information charging him with four counts of tax evasion with a total tax liability of $139,794. Although Smalley has since filed corrected amended tax returns with the IRS, he must still cooperate in making any payments, including any interest and penalties. According to court records, during the years 1997 through 2002, Smalley actively evaded his federal tax liability by arranging for his income to be hidden in a series of bank accounts, and by taking steps to ensure that no federal taxes were withheld by his employers. In 1998, Smalley sent a package of frivolous correspondence to the IRS, disclaiming the legal authority of the United States and the IRS, while renouncing any legal relationship with the government. In 2002, the IRS submitted a Notice of Levy to Smalley\rquote s employer to collect taxes due and owing from Smalley\rquote s wages. After being notified of this action, Smalley attempted to avoid the levy through the use of shell companies and bank accounts. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Ocala Attorney Sentenced to Seven Years for Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 18, 2005, in Orlando, Fl, Daniel M. Boyar was sentenced to seven years in prison, followed by two years supervised release, 100 hours of community service and a $200 special assessment to the US after previously pleading guilty to tax evasion and filing a false tax return. Boyar evaded paying more than $1.5 million in assessed taxes, penalties and interest that he owed the IRS by transferring his assets to family members and friends, and by placing his assets in teh names of corporations that he controlled. In 1997 and 1998, Boyar sold more than $11.4 million of WestAmerican Corporation common stock that he gained through a wire fraud scheme. Boyar transferred the proceeds of his stock sales through escrow accounts and other accounts that were not in his name to conceal from the IRS the substantial assets that he had available to pay his outstanding taxes. Boyar also failed to report the income he received from selling his WestAmerica Corporation stock on his 1997 tax return. As part of his plea, Boyar surrendered his license to practice law in Florida. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Defendant Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison for his Involvement in Tax Evasion Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 8, 2005 in West Palm Beach, Fl, Robert Jabbour was sentenced to 10 years imprisonment, followed by three years supervised release, and ordered to pay $1.6 million in restitution for his role in a tax evasion scheme. In August 2004, Jabbour was convicted of conspiring with co-defendant Nicholas D. DeAngelis to defraud the United States by impairing and impeding the Internal Revenue Service and of aiding and abetting DeAngelis's tax evasion. On the first day of his trial, Jabbour pleaded guilty to evading his own income tax liabilities. Jabbour and DeAngelis worked in concert to hide their assets and income. They used a complex web of nominee bank accounts and corporations to evade the payment of their tax liabilities. DeAngelis was sentenced earlier to 25 years imprisonment for his involvement in this tax scheme, as well as a related $1.5 million investment fraud scheme.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Government Contractor Sentenced to Federal Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 8, 2005 in New Haven, CT, Frank S. Chuang was sentenced to 33 months of imprisonment, followed by two years of supervised release. Chuang pleaded guilty in September 2003 to two counts of submitting false claims to the United States Department of Transportation. He also waived indictment and pleaded guilty to a one-count Information charging him with tax evasion. Chuang, the owner of L-C Associates, Inc., and L-C Associates, P.C., A Consulting Engineer ("L-C Associates"), engaged in a scheme to defraud the state transportation agencies of Connecticut, New York, and Massachusetts, as well as the Federal Highway Administration, by submitting fraudulent invoices. Specifically, Chuang falsely stated that corporate employees had performed specified work, when in fact they had not. Chuang inflated the corporations' overhead rate, and thus their reimbursement from the state transportation agencies, by including on the corporate payrolls people who were not, in fact, employees of the corporations. Chuang further inflated the corporations' overhead rate by failing to disclose certain information to their auditors. The investigation into this matter disclosed that Chuang diverted corporate income to evade personal income taxes. From 1995 through 2000, Chuang diverted corporate receipts totaling $4,340,949 into one of his personal bank accounts and in so doing evaded $1,694,730 in individual income taxes. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Attorney Sentenced in Fraud, Other Federal Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 3, 2005, in Springfield, MO, Gary A. Love was sentenced to 108 months in prison and ordered to pay $2,442,564 in restitution. Love pled guilty to charges contained in three separate federal indictments, including money laundering charges for defrauding more than $1.6 million from a group of his clients and others through an investment scheme, filing a false tax return, making false statements in support of a bank loan application, and failure to appear in court. Love was a practicing attorney making false statements in support of a bank loan application in the Springfield area from 1973 until his disbarment in September 2000. Love induced a number of individuals, including clients of his law firm, to invest funds with him through New Horizon, Inc., by false and fraudulent pretenses. Love claimed that New Horizon was engaged in the business of factoring accounts receivables in the trucking industry and that, due to his knowledge and experience, there was little or no risk of loss of investment. However, Love did not invest those funds as promised. Instead, he used the money to make periodic payments that he told victims were returns on their investment. Love converted more than $1 million of the fraudulently obtained money to his own use. Love was indicted for three counts of filing a false tax return, for the years 1995, 1996, and 1997, but he pled guilty to the 1995 count. Love also acknowledged false statements on his tax returns for 1996 and 1997 that were considered as relevant conduct for the purposes of sentencing. Love admitted to the total tax loss for the three-year period of $158,152.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Defendant Sentenced to 25 Years in Prison for his Involvement in Investment Fraud and Tax Evasion Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 28, 2005, in a Ft. Lauderdale, FL, Nicholas D. DeAngelis was sentenced to 25 years in prison, followed by three years supervised release, and ordered to pay $4,219,249 in restitution for his part in an investor scheme that defrauded the government of $2.6 million in unpaid federal income taxes. In June 2004 DeAngelis was convicted of a fifty-one (51) count Indictment, which charged DeAngelis with wire and mail fraud, money laundering, obstruction of justice, perjury, conspiracy, identity theft, and tax evasion. During the years 2000 to 2003, DeAngelis used false representations to induce investor victims, including several senior citizens, to send approximately $1.5 million to his Palm Beach investment companies, Velvet Hammer Consulting Group and GIASI, Inc. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Cambridge Woman Sentenced for Role in Fraud, Money Laundering Conspiracy\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 27, 2005, in Columbus, OH, Debbie K. Lent was sentenced to 57 months in prison followed by three years of supervised release, and fined $12,500 for her role in a scheme to set up \ldblquote ghost agents\rdblquote  in order to collect insurance commissions and other payments in eastern Ohio. Lent was convicted along with, Coshocton County insurance district sales manager, Peter J. Vasilakos on June 9, 2004 on eight counts of mail fraud, one count each of conspiracy to commit mail fraud, conspiracy to defraud the Internal Revenue Service, and conspiracy to launder money. Also convicted was Steven L. Baker on eight counts of mail fraud. According to testimony in 1998, Vasilakos, Lent and Baker set up a scheme to keep agents on the roles as active sales agents even though they were no longer selling policies for the company. They created false reports, forged documents and signatures, and mailed them to the insurance company in Chicago. By reporting these \ldblquote ghost agents\rdblquote , the conspirators continued to receive commission checks, overrides, renewals and bonuses issued by the company as the result of the reported sales activity. Lent was ordered to surrender no later than February 28, 2005 to begin serving her prison sentence. Vasilakos and Baker are scheduled to be sentenced March 3, 2005.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Judge Sentences another Top Figure in PinnFund Scam\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 24, 2005 in San Diego, CA, Keith G. Grubba, former President of PinnFund, USA, Inc., was sentenced to 63 months in prison, followed by five years of supervised release and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $187,665,543, less amounts recovered by the government and the court-appointed receiver for the company. Grubba pled guilty in January 2003 to conspiracy to commit wire fraud, conspiracy to commit money laundering, tax evasion and filing false statements with the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Grubba admitted that he conspired with Michael Fanghella and John Garitta to deceive investors and thereby perpetrate the Ponzi scheme by various means, including the preparation and dissemination of false financial statements. In total, the three fraudulently obtained over $330 million in investor funds. Grubba also admitted that he evaded reporting over $6.7 million in gross income for the tax years 1997 through 2000, with a tax due and owing of approximately $2.5 million. Michael Fanghella was sentenced to 120 months in prison and Garitta is scheduled to be sentenced on March 7, 2005. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Banker Sentenced to Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 20, 2005, in Muskogee, OK, Jay L. Quinton, former officer of The First National Bank of Ada, was sentenced to two concurrent sentences: a term of 36 months for a false income tax return and a term of 72 months for bank fraud, one year probation, $100 fine and ordered to pay restitution of $565,038 to IRS. Quinton previously pleaded guilty in September 2004 to bank fraud in excess of $2,800,000 and filing a false 2002 income tax return that failed to report $778,195 of other income. According to court records, Quinton misappropriated proceeds of securities owned by customers of the Bank for his personal use and benefit.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Florida Man Sentenced to Seven Years in Prison in Scheme that Defrauded Businesses Across the Nation\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 19, 2005, in Los Angeles, CA, Ronald S. Stern was sentenced to 84 months in prison and ordered to pay nearly $1.9 million in restitution to the businesses and individuals who lost money because of his scheme. Stern pleaded guilty in July 2004 to mail fraud, wire fraud, and money laundering. Stern operated a Fort Lauderdale \endash based collection agency promising prospective clients that he would collect the delinquent accounts for a fee. However, when Stern collected the delinquent monies, he kept the funds for himself. Stern also charged clients for fictitious collection efforts and fraudulently obtained additional money from the victims companies\rquote  bank accounts by misappropriating identifying information and using fraudulent authorizations to obtain loans and transfers.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Family Sentenced in Conspiracy to Defraud IRS\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 During December 2004, in Chicago, IL, Philip M. Priola, former owner of LT's Bar; his daughter, Lynnann M. Gage; and his son, Thomas Priola, were sentenced for conspiring with each other to defraud the Internal Revenue Service out of income tax, and F.I.C.A., Medicare, and employer taxes, by skimming hundreds of thousands of dollars of receipts from LT's Bar between 1992 and 1998, and submitting false tax returns that failed to report the receipts. Phillip Priola was sentenced on December 23, to 21 months in prison, followed by two years of supervised release and ordered to pay a $50,000 fine. Thomas Priola, was sentenced on December 17, to one year and one day in prison, two years of supervised release and ordered to pay a $6,000 fine. Lynnann M. Gage was sentenced on December 23, to 5 months in prison and 5 months home confinement to be followed by two years supervised release and 100 hours of community service for her involvement in the conspiracy. In addition, Gage was ordered to pay a $6,000 fine and $100 special assessment.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Couple Sentenced in Fraud Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On December 20, 2004, in Ft. Smith, Arkansas, Jeffrey Lenn Smith and Kaylene Rae Smith were sentenced for their roles in a bank fraud scheme. Jeffrey Smith had previously pleaded guilty to bank fraud and structuring of currency transactions to evade federal reporting requirements to the IRS. He was sentenced to 46 months in prison to be followed by five years of supervised release. Kaylene Smith had previously pleaded guilty to misprision of felony relating to her role in the structuring activity. She was sentenced to four months of house detention followed by five years of probation. The Smiths were also ordered to pay restitution of $3,346,787 to the defrauded financial institution. The judge also ordered that $782,900 in currency and a 2002 Mercedes seized from the Smith\rquote s home during the execution of a search warrant be forfeited and applied to the restitution. Jeffrey Smith diverted assets of his corporation, JLS Capital Holdings and its related entities, which had been listed in a security agreement with the defrauded financial institution. The Smiths also signed a personal guarantee with the financial institution. Beginning in July 2001 and continuing through February 2002 the Smiths utilized fifteen bank accounts to convert their business and personal assets into over $1,250,000 in currency. The Smiths systematically conduct over 180 currency withdrawals in amounts under $10,000 in order to evade the currency transaction reporting requirements and to conceal these assets from the financial institution.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Pembroke Resident Sentenced on Tax Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 5, 2005, in Boston, MA, Dale E. Matheny, was sentenced to 6 months imprisonment, to be followed by 1 year of supervised release, the first 6 months of which must be served in home confinement, on tax offenses involving the filing of false income tax returns. Matheny pleaded guilty on November 9, 2004, to an Information charging him with three counts of filing false tax returns and one count of failure to file returns. Matheny owned and operated a Pembroke business known as Dale's Professional Painting Service, which performed interior and exterior painting services for residential and commercial customers. Over the four-year time period encompassed by the Information, the total amount of the gross business receipts that Matheny received in connection with his painting business, but that he did not report to the IRS, was in excess of $750,000. As a result of his failure to disclose or report this income, Matheny willfully made and filed with the IRS false and fraudulent U.S. Individual Income Tax Returns for each of the years 1998, 1999 and 2000. He also willfully failed to file a tax return for the year 1997.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Small Business Operators Sentenced for Income Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On December 9, 2004, in Baltimore, MD, Irene Johnson and her husband Kenneth Johnson were sentenced to 18 months and 8 months in prison, respectively, followed by one year supervised release, for tax evasion. The Johnsons operated a plumbing, heating and air conditioning company and during the years 1998 through 2000, reported income on their personal tax returns, primarily from the company, in excess of $1,000,000. However, during the same period of time, the Johnsons had additional unreported income, generated through diversions of money from the company for personal use. The defendants agreed in their plea agreement that the combined tax loss was $659,573. As part of the plea agreement, the Johnsons have paid the criminal tax due and owing to the IRS. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Fannie Mae to Forfeit $7.5 Million to the United States\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On December 8, 2004, in Charlotte, NC, a Consent Order was entered in the case of United States v. James Edward McLean, Jr. The Order states that the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) will pay to the United States $7,500,516.08 which represents funds forfeitable under federal law that were paid to Fannie Mae by defendants in the criminal case. Specifically, this amount includes $6,522,188.08 that Fannie Mae received from First Beneficial Mortgage Corporation (First Beneficial) after First Beneficial obtained that money by fraud from the Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae) plus an additional $978,328 of stipulated interest. On November 22, 2002, James Edward McLean Jr. and others involved with First Beneficial were convicted of numerous counts of conspiracy, wire fraud, and money laundering in connection with a multi-million dollar mortgage fraud scheme. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Kansas Man Sentenced for Willfully Failing to Pay Federal Employment Taxes and Federal Individual Income Tax Returns\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On December 7, 2004, in Topeka, KS, David G. Pflum was sentenced to 30 months in federal prison, without parole, to be followed by two years of supervised release and ordered to pay a $6,000 fine. Pflum was convicted of eight counts of willfully failing to collect and pay federal employment taxes and three counts of willfully failing to file federal individual income tax returns. According to evidence presented at trial, Pflum, owner of Coil Springs Specialties, paid approximately $363,435 in wages from January 1, 1998, through December 31, 1999, and willfully failed to collect and pay to the IRS approximately $138,853 in federal employment taxes. Pflum received net income of $264,000 for tax year 1997, net income of $488,000 for tax year 1998, and net income of $393,000 for tax year 1999 and willfully failed to file federal individual income tax returns for 1997, 1998, and 1999 with the Internal Revenue Service.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Disbarred Ocean County Attorney Sentenced to 78 Months in Prison for Fleecing of Charitable Foundation\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On December 6, 2004, in Trenton, NJ, Charles D. Conway was sentenced to the maximum term of 78 months in federal prison followed by three year of supervised release and ordered to pay $295,238 in restitution after pleading guilty to charges of mail fraud, money laundering, obstruction of justice, witness tampering, perjury and tax evasion for his scheme to steal more than $1.4 million from a foundation that he created when representing the estate of a woman who willed all her assets to charity. As part of Conway's guilty plea, Conway agreed to forfeit any property derived from the scheme, including his residence and four bank accounts to satisfy the $1,431,356 loss suffered by the Rita and Harry Greenberger Foundation, Inc. (R&HGF), a not-for-profit charitable organization. Conway admitted that in early 1995 he devised a scheme to defraud the Greenberger Foundation of funds he then used for his own financial enrichment.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former County State\rquote s Attorney Sentenced on Tax Evasion Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 22, 2004, in Bismarck, ND, Richard C. Wilkes, former Burke County State\rquote s Attorney, was sentenced to 41 months in prison to be followed by three years supervised release. Wilkes was ordered to pay restitution of $439,026.72 to the heirs of the Jordy estates and $269,078 to the IRS, as well as a $200 special assessment to the Crime Victim\rquote s Fund. Wilkes pleaded guilty to tax evasion and mail fraud charges in September 2004. Wilkes admitted attempting to evade and defeat the assessment of income tax he owed to the US for tax year 2001 by underreporting his income by over $557,000 resulting in a tax loss of over $211,000. The mail fraud charge was based upon his admission that he had devised and carried out a scheme to fraudulently obtain money and property from the estates of Magdalena and Hulda Jordy by arranging for his appointment as personal representative and attorney for both estates without making full and proper disclosure to the heirs of the estates. While acting as estate attorney, Wilkes immediately began withdrawing large amounts of cash from both estates for his own use. As part of the scheme, Wilkes mailed partial distribution checks from the estates to the heirs, but made no mention of, and provided no accounting for, the amounts of money he paid himself.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Adoption Agency Used in Conspiracy Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 19, 2004, in Seattle, WA, Lauryn Galindo was sentenced to 18 months in prison to be followed by three years supervised release and 300 hours community service. Galindo was also ordered to pay $60,000 in restitution and forfeit proceeds of her crime to the government which includes a home in Hawaii and a Jaguar. In July 2004, Galindo admitted she organized a scheme whereby some Cambodian children were taken from their families and represented on immigration forms as orphans. Galindo was sentenced on federal charges that included conspiracy to commit Visa fraud, conspiracy to launder money, and structuring financial transactions.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Cape Cod Physician Sentenced on Tax Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 17, 2004, in Boston, MA, Kenneth E. Smith was sentenced to one year in prison, to be followed by one year of supervised release in connection with tax offenses involving his failure to file individual income tax returns in 1997, 1998, and 1999. Smith, a physician who owned and operated a Cape-cod based medical practice, had a combined income over the three year period exceeding $800,000. Notwithstanding his receipt of that income, Smith did not file tax returns timely reporting his income, nor did he pay the taxes, an approximate total of $175,000, that were due and owing on the income. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Amarillo Tax Preparer Sentenced on Tax Fraud Conviction\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 16, 2004, in Dallas, TX, James Kevin Foster was sentenced to 18 months in prison and ordered to pay $39,357 restitution to the Untied States Government. Foster was identified as an Affiliated Tax Professional by Renaissance, The Tax People, Inc. Renaissance was a multi-level marketing company that specialized in the sales and services of home-based business packages involving tax strategies and tax services. Renaissance offered tax support to its members in the form of tax preparation, tax advice, and \ldblquote audit protection.\rdblquote  Foster admitted that from April 2000 to April 2002, he aided and assisted in, procured, counseled, and advised, the preparation and presentation to the IRS of individual or joint income tax return which he knew were false and fraudulent. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Ellicott City Man Pleads Guilty to Tax Perjury\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 16, 2004, in Baltimore, MD, Syrakes Shah, also known as Charlie Shah, entered a guilty plea to one count of willfully subscribing to a false tax return for calendar year 2000. Shah\rquote s tax return reported income of $3,166 and tax due of $476, when in fact Shah\rquote s income from his business in 2000 exceeded $600,000, and he avoided taxes of approximately $243,000. Shah\rquote s finances came to light in connection with the investigation of his father, Mahendra Shah, for the arson of several industrial buildings in Baltimore. Mahendra Shah was convicted last April of arson and related counts of insurance fraud and money laundering in connection with that fire and is currently awaiting sentencing.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Dallas Man Sentenced to 15 Months in Federal Prison for Making False Statements on Income tax Returns\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 8, 2004, in Dallas, TX, James Meyer Lowenstein was sentenced to 15 months in prison and ordered to pay $176,164 in restitution after pleading guilty to two counts of making false statements on a federal income tax return. Lowenstein admitted the he reported $7,086 as his adjusted gross income for 1996 when he knew he should have reported an additional $176,164 in adjusted gross income. On a corporate income tax return Lowenstein admitted that he falsely reported advertising expense of $15,928 when he knew that the correct amount was $4,910. Lowenstein also admitted that he failed to disclose the existence of a bank account to the person who prepared his 1995 - 1998 federal corporate tax returns, and for his personal federal tax returns.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Accountant Sentenced on a Host of Criminal Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 29, 2004, in Jackson, TN, Steve Newell was sentenced to 43 months in prison, followed by three years supervised release on each count, ordered to pay $219,592 in restitution to the IRS, and a $1,400 special assessment. Newell was also ordered not to have any employment as a tax preparer, accountant, or bookkeeper while he was under supervised release. On December 18, 2001 Newell was sentenced to five months in prison on Title 26 U.S.C. Section 7207 charges. From the surrender date of January 7, 2002 and continuing through March of 2003, Newell submitted false documents and made false statements to the District Court repeatedly having his surrender date extended. Newell used the medical file of a deceased client to file false papers with the courts stating he was dying of cancer. Altered medical documents were seized during the execution of a search warrant on Newell\rquote s business. Newell pled guilty to a 10 count Information on September 5, 2003 related to the false statements. In addition, Steve Newell pled guilty to four counts of Title 18 U.S.C. Section 287 and four counts of Title 18 U.S.C. Section 2 on September 16, 2004. Newell filed false Forms 941 claiming false refunds for a company he did bookkeeping work for. Newell kept refund checks he had mailed to himself. The tax loss to the government for the false 941\rquote s is $171,556.46. An additional $48,036.00 was illegally obtained by Steve Newell.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Westerville Man Sentenced for Tax Crimes - Ordered to Pay more than $1.5 Million in Outstanding Taxes\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 29, 2004, in Columbus, OH, Eugene Everett Armold was sentenced to 45 months in prison for making false statements on income tax returns and failing to report more than $4 million in adjusted gross income for 1999 and 2000. Armold was also ordered to pay outstanding income tax liability to the Internal Revenue Service in the form of restitution of $1,564,215. At the trial, it was revealed that the $4,000,000 of unreported income came from Armold's operation and ownership of Purchase Plus Buyer's Group. He paid himself a consulting fee by transferring the money to a Nevada corporation known as Simba Financial Inc. This corporation had no business of its own or employees. It simply existed to receive this $4,000,000 and then funnel it to several other shell corporations until Armold either used the money for his personal use or sent it ($3,000,000) to an account overseas. Armold subsequently brought the money back into the country through one of his attorney's escrow accounts and used it to finance other businesses. The jury found that Armold filed an amended income tax return on June 8, 2001, claiming that his adjusted gross income for 1999 was $450,932, when in fact his true income for the year was at least $2,400,000. The jury also convicted him on a second count which stated that, on October 17, 2001, Armold filed an income tax return for the calendar year 2000 reporting an adjusted gross income of $1,143,520 when he knew his adjusted gross income for the year was at least $3,200,000.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Second New York Clothing Manufacturer Sentenced to Prison for Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 29, 2004 in Brooklyn, NY, Jose Torres was sentenced to 21 months in prison, to be followed by three years of supervised release. Torres was also fined $5,000 and ordered to cooperate with the Internal Revenue Service by filing truthful and amended corporate and individual tax returns. Torres had caused a tax loss to the government of more than $1 million. On May 9, 2003, Torres was charged in a two-count indictment with filing fraudulent corporate income tax returns for the fiscal years ending September 30, 1996 and September 30, 1997, on behalf of New Arrivals Sportswear, Inc., which he owned and operated in the 1990\rquote s. On February 27, 2004, Torres pled guilty to Count One of the indictment, which charged him with filing a fraudulent corporate tax return for the 1996 fiscal year. According to the indictment, from 1995 to 1997 Torres filed false corporate income tax returns that omitted gross receipts totaling more than $2 million. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Minnesota State Senator Sentenced\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 27, 2004 in Minnesota, former state senator Winston Wendall Borden was sentenced on six counts of failing to file federal income tax returns. Borden, an attorney, was sentenced to 27 months in prison, ordered to pay $6,000 and must serve a one year term of supervised release after incarceration. \par
Borden was convicted following a court trial which found him guilty for failing to file for the 200, 2001 and 2002 tax years. Prior to the bench trial, Borden had pled guilty to three other charges of failing to file for 1997, 1998 and 1999. Borden had not filed a timely return since 1991. Borden was a Minnesota state senator from 1970 to 1979 and president of the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce from 1979 to 1990.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b President of Child\rquote s House, Inc., Sentenced on Federal Income Tax Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 27, 2004, in Charlotte, NC, Julie Reese Adams was sentenced to 21 months in prison, followed by three years supervised release. Adams was also ordered to file tax returns and repay all back taxes to the United States and to the State of North Carolina. Adams the sole shareholder and president of Child\rquote s House, Inc. admitted to failing to turn it over to the Internal Revenue Service during the 1996 and 1997 years approximately $282,000 of federal income tax withholding she collected from her employees. Adams also pled guilty to failure to file a federal income tax return for the years 1995, 1996 and 1997. In the sentencing hearing, the Defendant stipulated that the total amount of taxes she owed (excluding interest and penalties) was approximately $1.5 million.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Abdurahman Alamoudi Sentenced to Jail in Terrorism Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 15, 2004, in Alexandria, VA, Abdurahman M. Alamoudi, founder and former executive director of the American Muslim Council (AMC), the founder of the American Muslim Foundation (AMF), and was an influential member of other Islamic political and charitable organizations, was sentenced to 276 months in jail after entering a guilty plea in July 2004 to three federal offenses: one count of violating the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA), which imposes terrorism-related sanctions prohibiting unlicensed travel to and commerce with Libya; one count of false statements made in his application for naturalization; and a tax offense involving a long-term scheme to conceal from the IRS his financial transactions with Libya and his foreign bank accounts and to omit material information from the tax returns filed by his charities. As part of a plea agreement, Alamoudi agreed to cooperate fully and truthfully in any and all investigations, including an ongoing investigation into a plot to assassinate an ally in the war against terrorism. Under the terms of that plea agreement, Alamoudi also agreed that he should be sentenced under the terrorism provision of the federal sentencing guidelines, and he agreed to forfeit all proceeds from his illegal dealings with Libya, which total at least $910,000, including $340,000 seized from him in the United Kingdom.\par
Court documents filed in conjunction with his plea agreement describe how, from November 1995 to September 2003, Alamoudi devised a scheme to obtain money from Libya and other sources overseas for transmission into the United States without attracting the attention of federal immigration, customs and law enforcement officials. Alamoudi admitted to participating in a comprehensive scheme to conceal prohibited financial transactions related to Libya, his travel to Libya, and financial transactions designed to evade currency reporting requirements, among other things.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Owner of D&D Food Center Sentenced to 37 Months in Prison for Food Stamp and Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 7, 2004, in Buffalo, NY, Said Douleh was sentenced to 37 months in prison in connection with his guilty pleas to food stamp fraud, and to filing a false tax return. Douleh admitted that from September 2001 and continuing through April 10, 2003, he fraudulently acquired and possessed food stamp benefits issued by the US Department of Agriculture. The court determined that the amount of food stamp benefits that Douleh fraudulently acquired and possessed was approximately $1,500,000. Douleh also admitted that on his 2002 federal income tax return he failed to report additional taxable income of $360,727 which resulted in a tax loss to the IRS of $129,312. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Cumberland Resources Office Manager Sentenced to 30 Months in Prison for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 7, 2004, in Roanoke, VA, Kaylene Addington was sentenced to serve 30 months in prison, followed by three years on supervised release following her July 8 guilty plea to one count of evading her income taxes for 1999. Under the plea agreement, Addington was required to file income tax returns and to cooperate with the Internal Revenue Service in the payment of her tax liability. Addington evaded income taxes while she was the office manager for Cumberland Resources Corporation. Addington failed to file tax returns and report her income, which included amounts she embezzled from her employer. Addington embezzled funds from Cumberland Resources Corporation by issuing payroll checks to herself which she deposited into her bank account but showed as being voided in the company's books and records, and which she destroyed after the checks had cleared the bank. She also issued checks payable to her employer's vendors, which she deposited into her personal bank account, and paid her personal credit card bills with company checks. Evidence at the sentencing hearing indicated that Addington failed to file income tax returns for 1991-2000, resulting in a tax loss in excess of $200,000.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Columbia Woman Sentenced for Embezzling $583,173\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 27, 2004, in Nashville, TN, Julie Ellen Bauer was sentenced to 51 months in prison, followed by five years supervised release and ordered to pay $391,926 in restitution. On March 9, 2004, Bauer pled guilty to one count of money laundering and two counts of bank fraud. Between October 9, 1998 and April 12, 2000, Bauer embezzled approximately $583,173 from bank accounts belonging to Saturn Corporation and EDS and transferred the funds to bank accounts she fraudulently opened and controlled under false pretenses and representations. During the period December 17, 1998 and June 23, 2000, Bauer conducted several monetary transactions, in excess of $10,000, with embezzled funds which affected interstate commerce. These transactions included purchasing a home for $324,776.34, lavish furniture for the home and two Chevrolet Suburbans.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b New York Clothing Manufacturer Sentenced to Prison for Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 23, 2004, in Brooklyn, NY, Louis Estevez was sentenced to one year and one day in prison, followed by one year supervised release after pleading guilty to filing a fraudulent corporate tax return for the 1996 fiscal year. Estevez filed a fraudulent corporate income tax return on behalf of Jasmine Fashions, Inc. which he owned and operated. The tax loss to the government was determined to be at least $325,000. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former North Andover Selectman Sentenced for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 20, 2004, in Boston, MA, John Leeman was sentenced to15 months in prison, ordered to pay restitution to the Internal Revenue Service in the amount of $352,624 and restitution to Charles Construction Company, Inc. and M.C. Andrews Company, Inc. in the amount of $635,000. Leeman pleaded guilty on July 20, 2004 to a three-count Superseding Information charging him with federal income tax evasion. Leeman, as Comptroller for Charles Construction Company, Inc. and M.C. Andrews Company, Inc., embezzled funds from those companies by issuing checks on behalf of the companies to third parties and forging the authorizing signatures on those checks. Leeman then cashed the checks that he issued on behalf of the companies by forging the signatures of the third party payees and presenting the checks to the bank without the knowledge and consent of the payees. Leeman used the proceeds from the cashed checks for his personal benefit. Leeman embezzled more than $835,000 from tax years 1997 through 1999 and paid no federal taxes on the money. Based on the amount of embezzled funds, the Government contended that Leeman owed $352,624 in federal taxes.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Two Officers of Benton Manufacturing Sentenced for Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 17, 2004, in Knoxville, TN, Charles Stone was sentenced to 18 months in prison, followed by three years supervised release, and fined $10,000. Dora Stone, Charles Stone's wife, was sentenced to 27 months in prison, followed by three years supervised release, and fined $10,000. The court also ordered the Stones to make restitution to the IRS in the amount of $264,575. The Stones were convicted on March 26, 2004 by a trial jury of conspiring to defraud the IRS and tax evasion. According to the indictment the Stone\rquote s used the corporate bank and credit card accounts to obtain cash and to pay personal expenses for themselves. Evidence at trial established that the defendants prepared false books and records which caused the company\rquote s return preparer to treat the personal expenditures as legitimate business expenses. The Stones then filed fraudulent personal income tax returns which did not report those amounts as income. The total corporate and personal loss resulting from the Stones\rquote  scheme was between $200,000 and $325,000. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b John Kenneth Coil Sentenced to Federal prison in Multi-Million Dollar Racketeering, Obscenity, Fraud, and Tax Evasion Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 17, 2004, in Austin, TX, John Kenneth Coil was sentenced to 63 months in prison, followed by three years supervised release, fined $5,000, and ordered to forfeit an estimated $8.1 million in property to the government after pleading guilty to federal charges in connection with a racketeering, obscenity, fraud, and tax evasion scheme. Coil admitted to using front companies to run his \ldblquote adult\rdblquote  pornography stores as well as putting some properties into the names of some of his children and in \ldblquote trusts\rdblquote  for his children without their knowledge. Coil also skimmed monies from the stores and failed to file tax returns or disclose such income for tax purposes on returns he did file. The total loss as a result of his scheme exceeded $4.5 million for the tax years 1981-2003. Seven other co-defendants have also been sentenced on tax related charges receiving sentencing ranging from three years probation to 42 months in prison. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Maximum Prison Term for Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 14, 2004, in Sacramento, CA, Sharon Macauley was sentenced to 30 months in prison and ordered to pay restitution of $1,040,768 to victims of her fraud scheme. Macauley pleaded guilty to one count of money laundering and one count of mail fraud on January 27, 2004, for falsely telling potential investors that she would use their funds to purchase expensive horses for which buyers had already been found. Almost none of the money Mccauley received from investors was actually used for this purpose, and most of the money any investor did receive in return for their investment, came from monies from new investors.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Business Man Sentenced to 37 Months Money Laundering and Bank Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 10, 2004, in Oklahoma City, OK, William Dean Brenner was sentenced to 37 months in prison followed by three years of supervised release. Additionally, Brenner was ordered to pay $806,851.51 in restitution to the victim and forfeit real estate and $45,099 in cash to the government. On July 23, 2003, a federal grand jury issued a 23-count bank fraud and money laundering indictment against Brenner for diverting company funds from an Oklahoma City computer networking business into a personal account. On November 13, 2003, Brenner pleaded guilty to one count of bank fraud and one count of money laundering. At that plea hearing, Brenner admitted that he used his authority as chief financial officer to divert over $800,000 in the form of checks payable to his company from his company\rquote s customers and other entities into an unauthorized account that he controlled and that bore his company\rquote s name.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Defendant Failed to Report Over $500,000 in Income\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 10, 2004, in San Diego, CA, Chiu Chi Chiang was sentenced to one year and one day in prison for filing a false individual tax return. At the time of his guilty plea, Chiang admitted that for the tax years 1997 through 2000, he intentionally omitted a total of $517,217 in business income. In addition to jail time, Chiang must pay all back taxes, as well as penalties and interest.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b North Carolina Man Sentenced in Real Estate Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 2, 2004, in Greensboro, NC, George Monk was sentenced to 87 months in prison, followed by three years supervised release, fined $200, and ordered to pay $224,368 in restitution after pleading guilty to numerous tax and fraud charges. Monk and others devised a scheme to utilize various mortgage brokers to submit materially false information to mortgage lenders to obtain mortgage loans. Monk recruited individuals to act as purchasers or \ldblquote straw-buyers,\rdblquote  he then deceived them into believing that following the purchase of the real estate in their names, that he would pay all monthly mortgage payments and promptly transfer the parcels of real property out of the straw-buyers\rquote  name. Monk failed to pay the monthly mortgage payments allowing the property to go into default and causing the sale of the property at foreclosure. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Oklahoman Sentenced to Over Nine Years for Violations of Tax Evasion, Bank Fraud, and Securities Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On September 1, 2004, in Tulsa, Oklahoma, Eddy L. Patterson was sentenced to 110 months in federal prison, and ordered to pay a money judgment of $3,476,936 for his conviction of 27 counts involving conspiracy, filing false tax returns, tax evasion, bank fraud, and securities fraud. The criminal conviction of bank fraud and securities fraud are in connection with Patterson\rquote s position as co-founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of National Environmental Service Company (NESCO) of Tulsa, Oklahoma. Patterson\rquote s tax fraud convictions include a variety of criminal acts involving the filing of false statements in income tax returns for the years 1993 and 1995, and failing to file personal federal income tax returns and failing to pay personal federal income tax returns for the years 1996 to 2000. During the course of the conspiracy, Eddy and Judith Patterson sent letters to the IRS renouncing their citizenship of the United States and claiming the IRS did not have jurisdiction over them.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b False Promises of Quick Returns Leads to Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 30, 2004, in Fresno, CA, Timmie Bruce Taylor was sentenced to serve 87 months in prison and ordered to pay $337,682 in restitution to victims of his fraud. Taylor pled guilty in May 2004, to multiple counts of evasion of payment and mail fraud stemming from his promises of quick returns to his investors in a bogus auction program after he sold them memberships ranging from $950 to $1,800. The fraud involved various enterprises under numerous names including American International Auction Network, Auction Training Center and Uncle Sam's Yard Sale, and Taylor's use of aliases including Ben Taylor and Tim Smith. Taylor admitted that he would tell participants they would be able to go to auctions in their area and purchase items at certain costs, and then he would sell the items at double that amount and split the profits with them. He also offered customer service representatives or "coaches" to the participants who would help them find auctions and items to bid on. Participants usually never heard from the defendant and typically never received anything from Taylor, his business or the "coaches." Despite filing returns for a five year period, and being aware of substantial amounts due the IRS, Taylor took affirmative steps to conceal his income from the IRS to evade payment of the tax due and owing.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Rainbow City Man Sentenced on Federal Fraud Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 24, 2004, in Birmingham, AL, Thomas E. Pike was sentenced to 30 months in prison, followed by five years supervised release, and ordered to make restitution to his former employer, Anesthesia Associates in the amount of $1,375,000. Pike was convicted on June 4, 2004 of five counts of tax evasion, one count of executing a scheme to defraud a federally insured bank, and one count of embezzling money from the pension plan of his employer. Pike was sentenced on tax evasion for the calendar years 1997 through 2001. The taxable income total for those four years was approximately $900,000. Pike also conducted a bank fraud scheme by means of false statements and representations in connection with loan applications to Regions Bank. The total amount of loans based upon these false representations was approximately $500,000. Pike also embezzled and converted to his own use money from the pension plan of his employer, Anesthesia Associates.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Tax Evasion Defendant Sentenced to 15-Month Prison Term\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 20, 2004 in Miami, FL, Laurie Gregoriou was sentenced to 15 months in prison, followed by two years\rquote  supervised release and ordered to pay $421,514 in restitution to the IRS after pleading guilty to conspiring against the IRS. Co-defendant, John Gregoriou, her husband, is awaiting sentencing, having also pled guilty to conspiring against the IRS and tax evasion. Gregoriou Publishing, Inc. (\ldblquote GPI\rdblquote ), a company that published magazines listing foreclosures, failed to pay over to the IRS more than $200,000 in taxes withheld from its employees. The tax amount was based on approximately $1.1 million in income from approximately 100 employees between April, 1992, and December, 1993. When a company fails to pay over withholding taxes, the person responsible for making the payments is subject to a \ldblquote Trust Fund Recovery Penalty\rdblquote  equal to the amount of the withheld taxes, plus interest. John Gregoriou, the sole shareholder and President of GPI, was the person who signed off on the company\rquote s quarterly tax returns and deemed by the IRS as subject to the \ldblquote Trust Fund Recovery Penalty.\rdblquote  As of the date of the Indictment, the total owed by John Gregoriou on this debt was approximately $420,000. The defendants conspired to evade payment of this debt by, among other things, placing John Gregoriou\rquote s assets, income, and businesses in nominee names, including Laurie Gregoriou\rquote s name and the names of both of their parents.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Florida Man Sentenced for Concealing $660,000 in Income from Bankruptcy Court\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 20, 2004, in Denver, CO, Richard Shelby Palmer was sentenced to 24 months in prison for concealing assets in connection with bankruptcy and for money laundering. Palmer agreed to the criminal forfeiture of $49,200, of which $39,197 will be used to pay restitution to creditors. Palmer was also ordered to pay a fine of $6,000. Palmer was one of the founders of a company known as Native American Sales, Native American Company or Companies, and then Native American Systems, Inc. whose primary business involved the sale of computer equipment to the United States Government. On July 25, 1995 Palmer filed a Chapter 13 bankruptcy petition. As part of the defendant\rquote s criminal scheme, he directed the accounting department of Native American Systems, Inc. to pay the vast majority of his sales commissions to one of three companies run by him instead of to him directly. Palmer used the commission money deposited into these businesses\rquote  accounts for his own benefit, and failed to disclose the vast majority of the money to the bankruptcy court. Palmer concealed over $660,000 in income from the bankruptcy court. According to the plea agreement Palmer concealed some of the money by purchasing a 1997 Chevy Tahoe and a 1993 Mercedes Benz in the name of one of his corporations. He also used $44,988 from another corporation\rquote s bank account to make a down payment on a residence, which he titled in the name of his father.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Individual Sentenced in Connection with Scheme to Defraud Investors\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 11, 2004, in Savannah, GA, Mark Bowlin was sentenced to 32 months in prison, followed by three years supervised release, and ordered to make full restitution to victims in the amount of $2,720,421. Bowlin had previously entered a guilty plea to conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud and money laundering. Between January 1998 and February 2000 Bowlin and others devised a scheme to obtain investors in Universal Interiors, a corporation through which Bowlin conducted a drywall installation business. Potential investors were told by Bowlin and others that they would receive up to a 40% return on investments over short periods of time. To persuade potential investors to invest in Universal Interiors, Bowlin and others made false representations concerning Universal Interiors, including falsely representing that Universal Interiors had millions of dollars worth of projects on hold until it obtained additional startup capital from investors and falsely stating that investments in Universal Interiors were used strictly to purchase materials and to pay labor with regard to a new project. In fact, the investors own funds were used to pay interest payments back to the investors to create an illusion of profitability. Investor funds were also used for Bowlin\rquote s and others\rquote  own use and enjoyment, including the purchase of homes, a boat, cars and other expenses.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b PinnFund Figure Gets Prison Term, Told to Repay Investors\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On August 2, 2004, in San Diego, CA, two defendants associated with the $300 million PinnFund U.S.A. ponzi scheme were sentenced for their participation. Tommy Larsen, former president of PinnLease, Inc., a PinnFund subsidiary, was sentenced to serve 78 months in prison followed by three years supervised release and ordered to pay $6,689,908 in restitution. Larsen\rquote s sentenced followed his guilty plea to mail fraud, wire fraud, money laundering, obstruction of justice, and tax evasion. Also sentenced was Kim A. Larsen, the son of defendant Tommy Larsen. Kim Larsen was sentenced to 21 months in prison, followed by two years supervised release and fined $5,000 for his role in the fraudulent equipment lease scheme. Kim Larsen\rquote s sentencing was based on his guilty plea to one count of making a false statement to a federal officer. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Contractor Sentenced in Tax Evasion Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 27, 2004, in San Francisco, CA, Daren M. Lasky was sentenced to two years in prison after pleading guilty to tax evasion on April 6, 2004. Lasky, an independent flooring contractor, admitted he intentionally did not file tax returns reporting the income or pay taxes on the income to the IRS for the tax years 1998 \endash  2001. Additionally, Lasky admitted to concealing his income from the IRS by arranging for his compensation from the services provided to general contractors to be falsely reported by them to the IRS on Form 1099-Misc paid, not to him, but to non-existent corporations with Employer Identification Numbers which were assigned to others by the IRS. In order to conceal his income and assets from the IRS he used bank accounts opened in other names instead of using his own name or his SSN, so the bank would not report his activities to the IRS. Under the plea agreement Lasky admitted that he had in excess of $480,000 in income and was aware that he had a legal obligation to file tax returns for those years and pay taxes for each of those years. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Accountant Sentenced to 42 Months in Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 26, 2004, in Detroit, MI, Peter W. Tietenberg was sentenced to 42 months imprisonment, followed by three years supervised release and restitution of over $761,000 paid to his clients. According to court records, from 1998 through 2001, Tietenberg, an accountant, operated Business Financial Consultants, which provided accounting and tax services. During this time period, Tietenberg's clients would submit information so that employee withholdings, social security, and medicare taxes could be calculated. After determining the amount of taxes due Tietenberg would transmit payroll register forms via facsimile, indicating the clients' taxes due and owing. Tietenberg directed his clients to write checks, payable to Business Financial Consultants, so that he could make payment to the Internal Revenue Service on their behalf. Instead of making the required payments to the IRS, Tietenberg converted the funds to his own use, which totaled over $761,000. From 1998 through 2001, Tietenberg also failed to file his own personal tax returns, which included the failure to report over $390,000 in gross income on his 2000 federal tax return.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b 151 Month Sentence Received\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 20, 2004 in Akron, Ohio, Gary Harris was sentenced to 151 months' imprisonment, to be followed by 3 years' supervised release, and a $95,000 fine. At trial, the evidence proved the defendants used a maze of trusts and corporations to try to hide approximately $18 million in income generated by various businesses they controlled, including historic Conneaut Lake Park in Crawford County, Pennsylvania. Between January 1, 1994, and July 8, 2003, they paid little or no taxes on the income earned. Nonetheless. Mr. Harris lived lavishly, acquired several homes, a jet way for his ranch in Conneaut, and an antique Mercedes sports car which he claimed was worth $250,000. \par
Mr. Harris has been in federal custody since his arrest in July 2003. He was convicted of tax evasion for tax years 1987, 1989, and 1990. In addition, between 1998 and 2002, when Mr. Harris was in federal prison after convictions for racketeering and income tax evasion, Mr. Kotula and Ms. Schwentker Harris kept Mr. Harris' businesses running and continued to operate this illegal conspiracy.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Defendant Sentenced to 60 Months in Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 12, 2004, in Denver, CO, Golda Torres-Harvey was sentenced to 60 months in prison and ordered to pay $580,437 restitution to victims of her scheme. According to the indictment, Torres-Harvey devised a scheme to defraud citizens from Mexico who were residing in Colorado, by inducing them through false representation to pay her for assisting them in preparing and submitting applications to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. She charged Mexican immigrants a fee ranging from $1,500 to $2,500 to assist them in filling out INS applications. Also, she instructed the immigrants to obtain money orders payable to \ldblquote INS\rdblquote  to cover her fees. Torres-Harvey purposefully delayed the filing of applications and mailed the applications without the required fee of $70 or $1,000; she kept the application assistance fees for herself. She opened a bank account in the name of \ldblquote International Network Service\rdblquote  and had approximately 61 money orders payable to \ldblquote INS\rdblquote  deposited into that account. Torres-Harvey then closed her business and did nothing to assist her remaining clients and the INS rejected the applications that were mailed with no accompanying fee.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Tulsa Man Sentenced to 24 Months for Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 6, 2004, in Tulsa, OK Stephen Mark Buford was sentenced to 24 months in federal prison, followed by one year of supervised release. Additionally, Buford was ordered to pay a $3,000 fine. Buford pled guilty to one count of Making and Subscribing to False Income Tax Returns, and one count of Aiding and Assisting in the Preparation of False and Fraudulent Income Tax Returns. According to the plea agreement, Buford was employed as an office manager at a business known as All Kinds of Trucks (AKT) in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Buford was responsible for preparing his personal Forms W-2 and 1099, and for preparing those of his son, Zachary Buford. Buford admitted preparing Forms W 2 showing some, but not all of the income he received from AKT during the 1999, 2000, and 2001 tax years. He did not report income he received from AKT totaling $115,318; $13,318 during 1999, $39,600 during 2000, and $62,400 during 2001. Additionally, Buford admitted preparing income tax returns for his son, Zachary Buford, for the 2000, 2001, and 2002 tax years. Buford admitted knowingly and willfully omitting income that his son received from AKT from his son\rquote s income tax returns totaling $20,296; $2,790 during 2000, $13,760 during 2001, and $3,467 during 2002. It was revealed in the plea agreement and at sentencing that Buford has been prior Federal convictions for tax violations associated with the preparation of false Federal Income Tax Returns. It was further revealed at sentencing that Buford has paid the Internal Revenue Service $105,000 to be applied toward the tax loss, penalties and interest related to tax crimes for which he was being sentenced.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Znetix Defendant Sentenced to Four Years in Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 6, 2004, in Seattle, WA, Kevin McCarthy was sentenced to four years in prison, to be followed by three years of supervised release with restrictive financial and employment conditions. McCarthy pleaded guilty in July, 2002, to Conspiracy and Mail Fraud and was a key prosecution witness against other Znetix defendants, which resulted in the convictions of those three defendants. As part of his guilty pleas and sentencing, McCarthy also forfeited a residence he had purchased in Bothell, Washington, a home in Arizona, a $5,000 home entertainment center, and the proceeds of bank accounts in Nevis and Nevada. \line\line McCarthy began his employment with Health Maintenance Centers, Inc. (HMC), an affiliate of Znetix, in September, 2000. On April 9, 2001, the State of Washington Department of Financial Institutions, Securities Division, issued a Cease and Desist Order against HMC and Kevin L. Lawrence prohibiting further stock sales. About three weeks after the Cease and Desist Order, Lawrence and McCarthy formed Cascade Pointe LLC, which was touted as an independent venture capital firm but was secretly controlled by Lawrence and McCarthy in violation of the State's order. At Lawrence's direction, McCarthy created a number of shell companies and bank accounts in the Caribbean island nation of Nevis for himself and other co-defendants. McCarthy used these Nevis companies to funnel money offshore and, by submitting fraudulent stock subscription agreements and financial statements from the Nevis companies, to make it appear that Cascade Pointe had wealthy backers and substantial lines of credit. Cascade Pointe fraudulently raised over $12 million from investors after the State's order.\line\line The charges against McCarthy arose out of the government's investigation of the offer and sale of over $90 million of securities by Znetix, HMC, Cascade Pointe, and other affiliated entities. The conspiracy's ringleader was Lawrence, who entered guilty pleas in July, 2003, to Securities Fraud, Wire Fraud, and Conspiracy, and is currently serving a 20-year prison term. Over the course of about seven years, Lawrence and his co-defendants, including Beaman, Culp, Kuiken, and five additional defendants who previously entered guilty pleas \endash  Donavon Claflin, Clifford Baird, Steven Reimer, James Wuensche, and Alfonso D. Lacson, Jr. \endash  defrauded thousands of investors out of approximately $91 million through a massive conspiracy involving false representations and failures to disclose truthful and accurate information in connection with the sale of the securities. Two additional defendants, Timothy Moody and Alex Lacson, pleaded guilty to related felony charges.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Ava Man Sentenced for Obstructing the IRS\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On July 1, 2004, in Springfield, MO, Roy Eugene Waters was sentenced to eight years and one month in federal prison without parole. The court also ordered Waters to pay a $15,000 fine and to cooperate with the IRS in the payment of all tax liabilities owed. Waters was convicted of obstructing the Internal Revenue Service in the collection of federal taxes owed to the government and for structuring currency transactions. Beginning in 1995, Waters, who did business as Ava Greenhouses, conducted significant greenhouse business with cash and cashier's checks. Waters was found guilty of using threats of force to obstruct the administration of the internal revenue laws of the United States, including the determination, assessment and collection of Waters' federal income tax liabilities for 1991, 1992 and 1993. Waters threatened to defend his property with guns against seizure by the IRS, and threatened to commit suicide. In an effort to intimidate and interfere with the IRS collection process, Waters also filed a series of frivolous lawsuits against the IRS. He placed notices in local newspapers threatening to sue anyone who bid on property seized by the IRS, claiming that intruders may be prosecuted, or the sale was unlawful. Waters was also found guilty of eight separate counts of structuring currency transactions at several local financial institutions for the purpose of evading the federal reporting requirement. Graves explained that federal law requires financial institutions to report any currency transactions in excess of $10,000. Waters conducted 35 financial transactions from June 23, 1998, through Oct. 11, 2000, for the purpose of evading the federal reporting requirement.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Lubbock Antiques Dealer Sentenced to More Than 8 Years in Federal Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 25, 2004, in Lubbock, TX, Barry Keith Holbert was sentenced to 97 months imprisonment and ordered to pay $2,200,356.65 in restitution to the victims of his crime. Holbert pled guilty in March 2004 to a two-count Information that charged him with one count of wire fraud and one count of money laundering. At the time of his plea, Holbert acknowledged that the loss involved in this case was between $1 million and $2.5 million and that there are between 10 and 50 victims of his fraud. Holbert is the owner of A Part of History Antiques, Inc. and according to documents filed in court created counterfeit bills of sale and fraudulent provenance (history of an artwork's ownership) to misled investors in believing that they were investing money in authentic paintings. In 1999, Holbert received approximately $605,000 from several investors who invested in a Sham Van Gogh. Holbert also received from investors tens of thousands of dollars to invest in the ownership of paintings which Holbert subsequently sold at a much higher price, without that investor's knowledge, authorization or consent, and did not provide the investor with any of the proceeds from that sale. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Chicago Businessman Convicted on All Counts in Insurance Fraud Trial\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 22, 2004, in Chicago, IL, Michael "Mickey" Segal, owner of Near North Insurance Brokerage, was convicted on all 26 counts against him. The conviction came after only 8 hours of deliberation following a six week trial. Segal was convicted of 13 counts of mail fraud, one of wire fraud, seven of making false statements, three of embezzlement, one of tax conspiracy and one of racketeering. Segal was found guilty of looting $35 million from a Near North Insurance restricted account where customer premiums were supposed to be held for safekeeping. The business was also convicted of 11 counts of mail fraud, seven of making false statements and three of embezzlement. Segal was ordered to forfeit $30 million dollars and 60% of his business, Near North Insurance Brokerage. The Judge remanded Segal to prison immediately following the forfeiture hearing stating that he was a flight risk. No Sentencing date has been set.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Computer Manager Sentenced for Healthcare and Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 18, 2004, in Birmingham, AL, Timothy V. Buckner was sentenced to 37 months in jail to be followed by three years supervised release. He was also ordered to pay $273,342.72 in restitution to Eastern Health. Buckner was sentenced on charges of healthcare fraud and income tax evasion involving his position as Director of Technology at Eastern Health System, Inc. Buckner managed the computer systems at Eastern Health System, Inc. He set up the nominee business name, Network Services, Inc., Division of Network Partners, Inc., an unincorporated entity which allegedly provided computer services to Eastern Health. Buckner created and submitted bogus claims in the name of Network Services, Inc. for purported computer goods and services, representing them to be legitimate for the purpose of causing Eastern Health System, Inc. to issue checks in payment of the alleged goods and services. Buckner received the checks from Eastern Health System, Inc. totaling over $273,000, deposited the checks into the Network Services bank account, and spent the proceeds. He did not report the proceeds as income on his 1999, 2000, and 2001 federal tax returns.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Franklin Businessman Sentenced for Tax Offenses, Reports U.S. Attorney\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 14, 2004, in Boston, MA, Michael Schlevenick was sentenced to 15 months in prison, to be followed by 2 years of supervised release. Schlevenick pleaded guilty on March 10, 2004 to a fourteen-count Indictment charging him with failure to account for, and pay, withholding taxes, and failure to file individual returns. Schlevenick, a former Franklin business owner failed to account for and pay over to the Internal Revenue Service more than $175,000 in federal income, social security and Medicare taxes that he withheld from the paychecks of his employees during the years 1997 to 1999. He was also sentenced for having failed to file individual income tax returns despite earning more than $500,000 in gross income over the same time period.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former IRS Employee Sentenced on Fraud and Tax Evasion Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On June 3, 2004, in Minneapolis, MN, Sandra Jean Valencia was sentenced to 33 months in prison, followed by three years supervised release and ordered to pay $605,203 in restitution. Valencia pleaded guilty to mail fraud, wire fraud and tax evasion. Appointed by her grandmother to take care of her financial affairs, Valencia admitted in court that she used her positions under the power of attorney and as trustee from 1997 through 2000 to transfer the vast majority of her grandmother\rquote s assets to herself. Valencia depleted her grandmother\rquote s stock holdings, sold 76 acres of her farmland and her household belongings, and emptied her bank accounts. Valencia also deposited approximately $41,000 of her grandmother\rquote s life insurance proceeds into her own bank account. Valencia admitted to evading income taxes for calendar years 1997 through 2000. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Three Employees who Defrauded Pitney Bowes Sentenced to Federal Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 28, 2004, in New Haven, CT, Raymond J. Wisnieski, Otto Guhl, Jr., and Robert J. Wilson, were sentenced after previously pleading guilty to a two-count Information charging involvement in a scheme to mail fraud and with filing a false U.S. personal income tax return. Wisnieski was sentenced to 37 months in prison, Guhl received 21 months of in prison, and Wilson was sentenced to 18 months in prison. All three were also sentenced to three years of supervised release and a fine of $5,000. Wisnieski, an Assistant Controller of the Accounting, Tax and Disbursement Services Department of Mailing Systems Finance, a division of Pitney Bowes, arranged for false entries to be made to the accounting records at Pitney Bowes to the benefit of himself, Guhl and Wilson. Guhl and Wilson worked under Wisnieski in the same department. The false entries suggested that Pitney Bowes had withheld from the defendants' income significantly more federal and state income taxes than, in fact, had been withheld. As part of the scheme, the defendants would tell Pitney Bowes that the withholding amounts were mistakenly overstated and have Pitney Bowes refund to them a portion of the monies that the company's accounting system suggested had been withheld. \par
Because the defendants would not typically seek payment from Pitney Bowes for the entire overstated withholding amount, Pitney Bowes would still forward to the IRS, at the required time, the taxes that allegedly had been withheld from each defendant's salary. Thereafter, the defendants would file their yearly federal personal income tax returns. Because the withholding payments made by Pitney Bowes to the IRS far exceeded the taxes due on the defendants' actual salary, the defendants would each year receive a substantial refund. During the scheme, the tax returns filed by the defendants were materially false because they did not include as income the money the defendants had stolen from Pitney Bowes as a result of their scheme.\par
During the scheme, Wisnieski unlawfully obtained $492,972 from Pitney Bowes and failed to pay $112,287 in federal income taxes. Guhl unlawfully obtained $351,496 from Pitney Bowes and failed to pay $78,703 in federal income taxes. Wilson unlawfully obtained $177,200 from Pitney Bowes and failed to pay $37,036 in federal income taxes.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Sister and Brother Convicted in International Money Laundering Criminal Enterprise Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 28, 2004, in Seattle, WA, Nghiem Nu-Doan Truong and her brother, Tung Quoc Truong, were convicted of conspiracy to engage in money laundering and immediately sentenced to 4 years imprisonment and 3 years imprisonment, respectively. After their imprisonment, both defendants were sentenced to serve 3 years of supervised release. Also, a preliminary order of forfeiture was entered into court authorizing the criminal forfeiture of over $1 million in cash and real property seized from Nghiem Nu-Doan Truong and My-A, Inc. According to court documents, the Truongs operated a lucrative money transfer business under the name of My-A, Inc. which opened it doors in mid-2001 to the Vietnamese community in Seattle. My-A, Inc. expanded to include over twenty branch offices and sub-agents in at least 13 other states. During 2002 and 2003, the Truongs transferred over $11 million of funds derived from marijuana trafficking by using various bank accounts to conceal and disguise the nature, location, source, ownership, and the control of the funds. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Maryland Owners of Computech, Inc. Sentenced for Tax Evasion and Possession of Stolen Property\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 27, 2004, in Greenbelt, MD, Leon Chen was sentenced to 15 months in prison followed by three years of supervised release and a fine of $2,000 for tax evasion. His wife, Ka Lai Man was sentenced to 60 days in prison and four months home detention followed by three years supervised release and a $2,000 fine for receipt and possession of stolen property. Chen also agreed to pay restitution to the IRS in the amount of $335,982.91. Chen stated on his 1997 tax return that his taxable income was $61,845 and the amount due was $11,955, whereas Chen knew he had substantial additional taxable income which he did not report. Chen understated his income between 1994 and 1997 for a tax loss of $335,982.91. Also, in September 2003, his wife admitted that she was in possession of computers and related equipment, valued at $23,377, were then sold to other Computech customers and the sales proceeds were deposited into bank accounts controlled by the Chens. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Ponzi Scheme Lands Three in Prison \par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 26, 2004, in Richmond, VA, Lamont C. Knight, Thomas W. Hoffler, and Richard A. Hertz, Sr. were sentenced to 11, 9, and 8 years respectively after being convicted on February 18, 2004 for multiple counts of mail fraud, wire fraud, and money laundering. The investigation involved a multi-million dollar Ponzi scheme, perpetrated by the defendants in churches in Virginia, North Carolina, Missouri, Illinois, New Jersey, Texas, and Georgia. The defendants promoted an investment program which guaranteed a high rate of return of between 3-5% per month. Investors were defrauded of $5.1 million dollars and a restitution order has been issued. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Defendant to Serve 17 Years in Prison for Smuggling Freon and Evading Taxes Defendant Concealed Profits in Offshore Bank Accounts\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 21, 2004, in Ft. Lauderdale, FL, Marc M. Harris was sentenced to 204 months in prison, followed by 3 years supervised release, and a $20,324,560 fine. Harris was also ordered to pay restitution to the Internal Revenue Service in the amount of $6,588,949.50. Harris was convicted of conspiring to defraud the Internal Revenue Service, conspiracy to commit money laundering and evading excise taxes. Evidence introduced at trial established that Harris conspired with Aurelio Vigna, Joseph Vigna and others to evade federal excise taxes on the sale of Freon to customers in South Florida. They failed to report and remit those taxes to the Internal Revenue Service and filed phony paperwork to conceal domestic sales of illegally imported Freon. To hide the sales proceeds, Harris also created and used domestic and foreign shell corporations and related bank accounts. He laundered more than $8 million in proceeds generated from the Freon smuggling scheme for Aurelio and Joseph Vigna by use of a series of wire transfers through Panamanian corporations and bank accounts. As a result of the scheme, between January 1993 and June 1994, Harris evaded approximately $6.2 million in excise taxes and also helped his co-conspirators allegedly evade additional individual and corporate income taxes on the profits.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Accountant Sentenced for Filing False Tax Returns\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 20, 2004, in San Francisco, CA, Randolph George was sentenced to 15 months in federal prison, a fine of $20,000, restitution of $70,000, as well as a one year period of supervised release. George, a former senior accountant at a large CPA firm, was charged with filing false tax returns for 1991 and 1992, and failure to file a tax return for 1993. After deliberating one day, the jury found the defendant guilty of all charges. In the early 1990s, George was hired to serve as a receiver for radio stations that were experiencing financial difficulties. As a receiver, George managed all aspects of the radio stations including exercising control over the business bank accounts and accounting records. Evidence showed that Mr. George was paid receiver fees during 1991 and 1992 in the amounts of $90,001.42 and $125,432.66, respectively, which he did not report on his tax returns for those years. During 1993, in addition to serving as a receiver for radio stations, George also managed a Walnut Creek paging company known as Tempo Personal Communication. Evidence showed that George was paid receiver fees totaling $154,595 in 1993; management fees with respect to Tempo Communications in the amount of $62,955; and other income in the amount of $25,000. Notwithstanding the receipt of $242,550 in business income for 1993, George never filed an income tax return for that year. The conviction is the result of a referral by the IRS Examination Division for further investigation to the IRS Criminal Investigation Division. George's fraud was uncovered when a revenue agent found copies of income tax returns different from those filed with the IRS that had been submitted by George to financial institutions in conjunction with loan applications. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Man Sentenced for Role in Employment Agency Fraud Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 17, 2004, Worcester, MA, Tan Ngo was sentenced to two years and one month in prison, followed by three years of supervised release, for his role in a temporary employment agency mail fraud and money laundering scheme. Ngo was also ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $38,265 to the two insurance companies that were defrauded in the scheme and imposed a forfeiture money judgment in the amount of $767,870. Ngo pleaded guilty to thirteen charges including mail fraud, mail fraud conspiracy, money laundering conspiracy, filing false tax return, and aiding in the filing of a false return. Ngo admitted he and his co-conspirators opened two bank accounts in the names of Tri-Mark Temps Service and Tri-Mark Temporary Service, into which they deposited a total of $767,870 in client company checks, constituting proceeds of the fraud, during the years 1996 and 1997. Ngo and his co-conspirators used some of that money to pay Tri-Mark's temporary workers in cash, without withholding or deducting for such things as federal and state income taxes, unemployment taxes, and Social Security. In connection with these schemes, Ngo also admitted that he had filed a federal income tax return falsely under-reporting his own 1996 income, and that he had aided and abetted the filing of a false 1996 federal income tax return for the individual whom Ngo and a co-conspirator had put forward as the straw owner of Tri-Mark.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b San Diego Man Pleads Guilty in Investment Fraud Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 13, 2004, in San Diego, Paul Scheibe pled guilty to conspiracy to defraud the United States in connection with his role in an investment fraud scheme. Scheibe conspired with others and raised over $2.5 million through the sale of unregistered securities related to the development of new technologies. Scheibe failed to tell investors that he was permanently barred from selling unregistered securities by the SEC. Scheibe falsely informed investors they would receive 10 times their principal shortly after they made their investment. In actuality, the investors did not receive any funds. The money raised by Scheibe and paid to himself and other conspirators resulted in a $325,000 tax loss to the government. Six other defendants in this investigation have been indicted and are awaiting trial.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Business Owner Sentenced for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 7, 2004, in Wilmington, DE, Donald L. Donovan was sentenced to 36 months in prison, followed by three years supervised release and ordered to pay a fine of $7,500, the cost of prosecution, and all taxes, interest, and penalties to the IRS. Donovan was convicted in January 2004 of four counts of attempted tax evasion and four counts of willful failure to file an income tax return for the calendar years 1996 through 1999. In addition to failing to file tax returns for 1996 through 1999 Donovan took steps to conceal his income from the IRS, including using a personal bank account that listed a fictitious social security number, opening a bank account and post office box under a fictitious name, and providing a customer with a false social security number for use on a Form 1099. In convicting Donavan the jury rejected his defense that the federal income tax laws do not apply to him.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Lea Fastow Sentenced to Prison in Enron Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On May 6, 2004, in Houston, TX, Lea Fastow was sentenced to 12 months in prison followed by one year of supervised release. Fastow pleaded guilty to filing a false federal income tax return. According to the plea agreement Fastow also agreed to cooperate in the Enron investigation. Fastow also relinquished any claim to almost $30 million in forfeited funds seized by the Enron Task Force in May 2003 for the benefit of victims of fraud at Enron.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Minneapolis Business Owner, 2 Managers Sentenced\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On April 29, 2004, in Minneapolis, MN, the owner of two Twin Cities construction service companies, one of his sons, and a project manager were sentenced for tax fraud, and mail fraud. Douglas G. Radtke was sentenced to 36 months in prison and ordered to pay a $20,114 criminal fine after being convicted of one count of conspiracy, seven counts of failure to collect and pay tax, and two counts of mail fraud. Scott Radtke was sentenced to 24 months in prison after being convicted of conspiracy and three counts of mail fraud. Michael T. Donohoe was sentenced to 18 months in prison for conspiracy, filing a false tax return, and three counts of mail fraud. All three were also ordered to jointly pay restitution in the amount of $132,012 to Wilson McShane Corporation and $47,873 to Berkley Risk Administrator\rquote s Company. \par
From December 1995 to at least January 2000, the defendants engaged in a fraudulent payroll, tax and compensation scheme. The defendants arranged for employees to work in exchange for payments in the form of \ldblquote cash checks\rdblquote  which were not subject to withholding taxes or union negotiated fringe benefits. In an attempt to avoid IRS reporting requirements which are triggered by any cash payment greater that $600, the defendants arranged for payments to employees of up to $599.99 under their Social Security Number, and then required employees to supply names and Social Security Numbers of relatives and friends to serve as nominees for the issuance of additional \ldblquote cash checks.\rdblquote  More than 500 \ldblquote cash checks\rdblquote  in the sum of approximately $175,000 were issued during the course of the conspiracy. In an attempt to conceal the conspiracy, Galston created, signed and submitted fraudulent IRS Employer\rquote s Quarterly Tax Returns and Donohoe filed false U.S. Individual Income Tax Returns. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Man who Failed to Pay Employment Taxes on Over $3.1 Million in Cash Wages Sentenced to Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On April 26, 2004, in Los Angeles, CA, Vernon Morris Marshall, who owned and operated a drywall business called Vern Marshall Drywall, Inc., was sentenced to 27 months in prison and ordered to pay $471,690 in restitution on conspiracy and tax fraud charges. Marshall admitted that he and Faith Virginia Krug, his bookkeeper/office manger paid cash wages to employees to avoid paying approximately $470,000 in employment taxes to the IRS. Marshall also admitted that he and his bookkeeper used financial structuring to avoid detection of the underreported cash wages paid to the employees. Krug pleaded guilty in October to conspiracy and admitted that at the direction of Marshall, she kept two sets of books, one reflected the true income and expenses of the company, and a second set reflecting only the income and expenses that were reported to the IRS. Krug was sentenced to home detention for her role in the scheme. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Two Men Sentenced after Pleading Guilty to Employment Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On April 22, 2004, in Newark, NJ, Christopher T. Bruton and Leon B. Badick were each sentenced to 20 months in prison, followed by 36 months probation and fined $5,000. The sentence resulted from a November 14, 2004, guilty plea to one count of conspiring to commit tax evasion concerning their operation of Company B's, a bar restaurant formerly located in Ramsey, NJ and Orangeburg, NY. Both Bruton and Badick admitted that between 1993 and 2000, they devised a scheme to underreport approximately $2,792,772 in wages paid to employees in order to evade approximately $477,407 in payroll taxes. In addition, to conceal the employment tax scheme, Bruton and Badick underreported approximately $358,397 in sales taxes collected from restaurant patrons on the behalf of the states of NY and NJ. This scheme resulted in a total tax loss of approximately $835,800.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Byron Wilson, Former Owner of Regal Beagle, Sentenced for Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On April 12, 2004, in Toledo, OH, Byron Wilson was sentenced to fifteen months in prison for filing false federal income tax returns. In September 2002, Katherine Wilson and Byron Wilson were charged in a two-count indictment. The indictment alleged that the Wilson\rquote s, who were married at the time and operating a tavern called the Regal Beagle intentionally filed false 1994 and 1995 income tax returns. The Wilson\rquote s failed to report approximately $376,378 of primarily cash receipts skimmed from their operation of the Regal Beagle. Byron Wilson was ordered to cooperate with agents of the IRS to pay his outstanding tax liabilities, estimated at approximately $200,000 for several years. He must make substantial payments toward his tax liabilities as an express condition of his supervised release. Katherine Wilson was sentenced in December 2003 to six month\rquote s home confinement. According to her plea agreement Katherine Wilson must pay her outstanding tax liabilities for the years 1992 through 1995 and must make substantial payments toward her tax liabilities as an express condition of her probation.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Owner and Manager of Sacramento \endash  Area Auto Dealership and Auto Repair Shops Sentenced to Jail for Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On April 2, 2004, in Sacramento, CA, George Saites and Euthimios Saites were sentenced for their roles in a tax evasion scheme. George Saites was sentenced to one year and one day in prison, and ordered to pay a $7,500 fine. Defendant Euthimios Saites was sentenced to 2 months home confinement. George Saites admitted in court that in tax years 1997, 1998, and 2000, he failed to pay income tax to the IRS on significant amounts of income derived from his businesses. George Saites stated he concealed substantial taxable income from the IRS by skimming cash from the businesses and by having others, including Euthimios Sates, keep two sets of invoices, only one of which was reported to the IRS. Euthimios Saites admitted that he willfully filed false U.S. Individual Income Tax Returns, which substantially understated the gross receipts and included false expenses and deductions for the business. The IRS estimated that George and Euthimios Saites collectively owe more than $104,000 in back taxes.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Hawaii Certified Public Accountant and Dentist Sentenced to Prison for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 30, 2004, in Honolulu, HI, Victor H. Zuercher, Jr., a dentist, was sentenced to 21 months in prison followed by three years supervised release. Peter Paul Virdone, a certified public accountant and income tax preparer, was sentenced to six months in prison, followed by two years supervised release and ordered to pay a $12,000 fine. The court determined Zuercher and Virdone had caused tax losses to the United States and the state of Hawaii totaling approximately $312,000. In October 2003, both defendants pled guilty to one count of tax evasion. As outlined in the respective plea agreements and in court, this evasion-of-payment scheme involved the creation of a nominee entity, O.B., Inc., through which Zuercher purchased and operated a dental practice. Zuercher's sister, a chiropractor, and his teenage son were listed as the sole shareholder and president, respectively. Zuercher admitted he hid income owed to the IRS, falsely attributed $136,000 as salary paid to his teenage son, and caused the filing of false and fraudulent statements with an IRS collection officer, in order to prevent the garnishment of income earned by his dental practice. Virdone admitted to knowingly aiding the effort to conceal Zuercher\rquote s income and assets from the IRS and the state of Hawaii by serving as an officer of the nominee corporation, preparing false corporate and individual income tax returns, and falsifying corporate books and records in order to frustrate the efforts of the IRS to collect taxes owed for the calendar years 1985, 1986, 1990, and 1993 through 1997.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Man Sentenced to Prison for Falsely Reporting Government Officials to IRS\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 16, 2004, in Madison, WI, Larry Dean Kallembach was sentenced to two years in prison and a $5000 fine for filing false forms with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in an effort to retaliate against local government officials. Evidence at trial established that in late 1997 Kallembach received a number of citations for building code violations for property he owned. After appearing in court on these citations, Kallembach was held in contempt and sentenced to 30 days in jail. Kallembach subsequently filed a number of lawsuits against the public officials involved in those incidents, and one of those lawsuits resulted in a judgment against Mr. Kallembach in excess of $5,000. In 1999, Kallembach refused to pay property taxes related to a number of properties he owned. In January 2000, Kallembach attempted to use the IRS as a tool of harassment and retaliation against the public officials involved in his citations and the contempt, those involved in defending various lawsuits, and finally public officials who mailed out the property tax bills in 1999, by filing false forms with the IRS indicating that these public officials had been involved in suspicious large cash transactions.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Gillette Executive Sentenced to 37 Months in Prison for Taking Kickbacks from Gillette Vendors\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 16, 2004, in Boston, MA, Gino Deluca, the former Director of the Permanent Merchandising Systems Department at Gillette was sentenced today in federal court to 37 months in prison, followed by two years supervised release following his guilty plea to eleven counts of mail fraud and wire fraud, along with two counts of subscribing to false tax returns. Deluca was also ordered to pay $724,829 in restitution to Gillette. From 1996 to August of 2002, Deluca was responsible for the promotion and display of Gillette grooming products, such as razors, Duracell batteries and Braun/oral care products, within various retail establishments. Between 1998 and 2002, Deluca received close to $600,000 in kickbacks from vendors to whom Deluca steered lucrative Gillette business. Two tax charges to which Deluca pleaded guilty stated that he failed to report over $325,000 in illicit income that he received in 1999 and 2001.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Hotel Executive Sentenced for Participation in Multimillion Dollar Federal Tax Evasion Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On March 12, 2004, in New York, NY, Brett G. Tollman was sentenced to 33 months in prison, ordered to pay $3.5 million in restitution to the IRS and fined $50,000. Tollman plead guilty to two tax fraud conspiracy charges in September 2003. Tollman served as an executive at Tollman-Hundley, which owned and managed various Days Inn Hotels. From 1993 to 1999 Tollman received more than $2.7 million in compensation through a secret Channel Islands bank account, which amounts he knowingly failed to report to the IRS. According to Tollman\rquote s plea agreement the unreported income from the Channel Islands scheme resulted in a tax loss to the United States of more than $3,150,000. Tollman further admitted that he conspired with employees of the Tollman-Hundley companies to pay those employees various forms of compensation that was not reported to the IRS by the Tollman-Hundley companies or by the employees. The unreported compensation to Tollman-Hundley employees involved the payment of almost $900,000 and a tax loss to the US of over $350,000, bringing the total tax loss to $3,500,000.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Northampton Investment Advisor Sentenced for Defrauding Clients of Over $1.2 Million\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 25, 2004, in Springfield, MA, Robert C. Sears was sentenced to three years and one month in prison, to be followed by three years supervised release and was ordered to pay $267,471 in restitution. Sears plead guilty to wire fraud and willful failure to file tax returns. Sears, an unregistered investment advisor, misappropriated funds from several client\rquote s brokerage accounts. Sears accomplished his misappropriation by forging clients\rquote  signatures on Letters of Authorization directing Charles Schwab Co. to transfer clients funds to his own corporation and forging client signatures on margin agreements to obtain unauthorized margin loans. Sears received substantial income from investments and self-employment during the tax years 1998 and 1999 but never filed income tax returns for those years. Sears failed to file an income tax return for the 2000 year as well.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Victor Nance Sentenced in Ponzi Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 20, 2004, in Jackson, MS, Victor G. Nance was sentenced to 10 years in prison, fined $10,000, and ordered to pay over $9.1 million in restitution for his part in a large scale Ponzi scheme. Nance pled guilty to depositing $519,015 into AmSouth Bank, knowing that the funds were derived from mail fraud or wire fraud. He also pled guilty, along with co-defendant Hamric, to the forfeiture count designed to recover the $10.2 million that investors lost in the fraud scheme engineered by Hamric and Nance. Nance had been a financial advisor for years and convinced many of his clients that they should invest in a \ldblquote Promissory Note\rdblquote  with Louis Hamric which would pay them between 18% and 30% per year. Nance convinced over 40 clients to invest over $10 million in this scheme. In return Hamric paid Nance approximately $4.8 million in commissions for his services. Although the victims were told that they were investing in a money trading program, no such programs exist and the interest they received was, in fact, a repayment from their own funds.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Ocean City Hotel Owner Sentenced for Tax Evasion\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 19, 2004, in Baltimore, MD, Adel Iskander, a.k.a. Ed Iskander was sentenced to 41 months in prison followed by three years supervised release and ordered to pay a fine of $800,000. Iskander was convicted in August 2003 of three counts of tax evasion and one count of structuring a financial transaction to avoid a federal currency transaction reporting requirement. According to trial evidence, Iskander reported no taxable income and paid no federal income tax during the years 1994, 1995, and 1996, although the two hotels he owned and operated were profitable and Iskander was earning a substantial taxable income from their operations. Iskander, an accountant by training, engaged in a complicated tax evasion scheme which involved diverting hundreds of thousands of dollars from the hotels into personal investment accounts held in the name of his wife. Iskander created a phony shareholder loan account to make it appear that the corporations that owned the hotels owed him money and then took false \ldblquote bad debt\rdblquote  deductions on his tax returns to offset the income earned from his and his wife\rquote s personal investment accounts. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Northern California Man Sentenced in Securities Fraud Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 17, 2004, in San Francisco, CA, Sherman S. Smith was sentenced to 37 months imprisonment and ordered to pay approximately $4.7 million in restitution to those he defrauded. In his plea agreement, Smith admitted that he defrauded a Florida woman by causing her to give him money for investments in stock and securities he promised to make that he said would earn 12 percent interest. Smith later sent false account statements and stock certificates to his victim to make it appear that he had invested her money in a church consulting business he controlled by the name of Donne Corporation.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Convicted Con-Man gets 14 Years for $73 Million Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 13, 2004, in Newark, NJ, Thomas Giacomaro was sentenced to 14 years in prison and ordered to pay $69.29 million in restitution. Giacomaro pleaded guilty last June to a three-count, 28-page Information charging him with conspiracy to commit mail fraud, mail fraud and conspiracy to defraud the United States. \par
Giacomaro admitted that during the period of the fraud, he raised the more than $73 million stolen from investors by convincing them that their investments were to be used for mergers and acquisitions of companies in the garbage, heating oil and transportation businesses. Giacomaro admitted that he used millions of dollars of the fraudulently obtained funds to finance a lavish lifestyle for himself.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Hotel Developer Sentenced\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On February 2, 2004, in Nashville, TN, Charles V. Covington, former owner and president of OCVOC Investment Holdings, Inc., was sentenced to 30 months in prison followed by 3 years of supervised release. Covington was also ordered to pay restitution to Investment Holdings, Inc., in the amount of $600,000 and to pay IRS back taxes in the amount of $140,278 as a condition of his supervised release. Covington pled guilty on September 5, 2003, to failing to file a federal income tax return for the year 1997 and to mail fraud. Covington was indicted on July 10, 2002, and charged with committing mail fraud, money laundering and failing to file his 1997 U.S. Individual income tax return while receiving in excess of $366,000 in gross income. Covington, while attempting to develop a downtown hotel in Nashville, Tennessee, used that speculative venture to defraud persons who believed that they were investing their funds in the hotel project. Covington used these funds for his personal living expenses, including but not limited to, a down payment on a luxury residence, expensive furnishings for the residence, private jet service for his family, catered birthday dinners for his wife, expensive jewelry and tuition at a private school for his step-daughter.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Burlington Woman Sentenced after Pleading Guilty to Fraud Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 28, 2004, in Burlington, VT, Susan B. Emilo was sentenced to 33 months in prison, to be followed by three years of supervised release and ordered to pay nearly $1 million in restitution after pleading guilty to mail fraud and filing a false tax return. According to court records between 1993 and 2002 Emilo worked as a bookkeeper for Lincoln Applied Geology, Inc., during that period of time Emilio embezzled over $736,000. The tax charge was based on her failure to declare the revenue from embezzlement as income.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Corporate Officers Sentenced in Connection with Scheme to Defraud Investors\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 28, 2004, in Savannah, GA, Randall Coyle, Ronald Coyle and Avery Curtis Griffin, Jr., were sentenced after having entered earlier guilty pleas related to their solicitations of over $10 million from investors. The defendants offered promissory notes to investors and promised investors that they would receive from 15 \endash  100% return on investments over short periods of time when, in fact, none of their businesses were profitable and they used the funds to make payments back to investors and for their own personal use and enjoyment. Randall Coyle, President, CEO and majority shareholder was sentenced to 168 months in prison, 3 years of supervised release and ordered to pay restitution of $6,187,000. Ronald Coyle, the brother of Randall Coyle, was sentenced to 60 months in prison, 3 years of supervised release and ordered to pay restitution of $6,187,000 following his plea to money laundering and fraud charges. Avery Curtis Griffin, a recruiter for the Coyle organization, was also sentenced to 60 months in prison, 3 years of supervised release and ordered to pay restitution of $6,187,000 following his guilty plea to mail fraud. Sonja Coyle, the wife of Randall Coyle, was previously sentenced to 36 months probation and ordered to pay $6,187,000 in restitution following her guilty plea to Title 26 charges and her cooperation with the government\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former CEO and President of Link Express Delivery Solutions Sentenced to Twenty Years' Imprisonment\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 22, 2004, in West Palm Beach, FL, Paul Johnson was sentenced to 20 years' in prison and three years' supervised release for his conviction on twenty-eight counts of conspiracy to commit securities fraud, securities fraud, perjury, money laundering, and conspiracy to commit money laundering. Johnson is the former CEO and president of Link Express Delivery Solutions (LEDS), Link Worldwide Solutions, and Pony Express Logistics. According to the indictment, in several private placement securities offerings, LEDS sold approximately $15.5 million of LEDS -owned LEDS securities and approximately $3.4 million of Johnson-owned LEDS securities, for a total of approximately $18.9 million. The Indictment alleged that Johnson raised monies for the growth and administration of a package delivery business. These monies were obtained under false pretenses, as he made material mis-representations as well as omissions to investors. A significant portion of the investors' monies was used it for his personal use, and for his friends and family.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Three Restaurant Owners Sentenced in Tax Evasion Case\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 22, 2004, in Miami, FL, Julio Somoza, Carlos Somoza, and Juan Wong, three of the four owners of the Los Ranchos restaurants, were sentenced in connection with a tax evasion scheme. Julio Somoza was sentenced to 15 months\rquote  in prison followed by 4 years of supervised release and a $10,000 fine. Carlos Somoza was sentenced to 17 months\rquote  in prison followed by 4 years of supervised release and a $40,000 fine. Lastly, Juan Wong was sentenced to one year of home confinement followed by 5 years\rquote  supervised release and a $100,000 fine. According to court documents, between 1997 and 2000, the defendants skimmed cash from the daily cash receipts of the Los Ranchos restaurants. The cash skim was accomplished by separating a portion of the restaurants\rquote  cash receipts from other daily business records, including credit card and petty cash receipts. A part of the skimmed receipts was then distributed to each of the defendants. Documents were created in order for each defendant to be able to verify that he was receiving his portion of the skim. Court documents state that Carlos Somoza defrauded the United States and the IRS of approximately $411,000 in unpaid personal income tax. Julio Somoza and Juan Wong each defrauded the government out of approximately $277,000 in unpaid personal income tax. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Colorado Man Sentenced for Defrauding Vail Resident\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 16, 2004, in Denver, CO, Jack J. Curtin-Hill was sentenced to 41 months in prison after pleading guilty in October 2003 to bank fraud and making false statements in an IRS tax return. From August 1995 through September 1998 Curtin-Hill executed a scheme to obtain assets, securities, and other property under the custody and control of First Bank of Vail belonging to Ms. Hill by means of material false and fraudulent representations. Approximately $919,420 of more than $1 million in stock sale proceeds was diverted to other accounts under Curtin-Hills control, and used for his personal benefit. Curtin-Hill failed to pay any federal income tax on the amount taken. According to the plea agreement, on April 15, 1998 Curtin-Hill filed a federal income tax return which failed to report an extra $402,885 of total tax. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Medford Man Sentenced for Conspiracy and Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 8, 2004, in Boston, MA, Roland Joy was sentenced to 4 months' imprisonment, to be followed by 2 years of supervised release, the first 4 months of which are to be served in home detention for conspiracy to defraud the Internal Revenue Service and of filing a false personal tax return. Joy was also ordered to pay restitution to the Massachusetts Division of Employment and Training for illegal unemployment benefits. Evidence presented during the six-day trial proved that from 1993 through 1995, Stoneham Towing, Inc., paid cash wages "under the table" to Joy and other employees, thereby avoiding a significant amount of corporate payroll tax as well as employees' personal income taxes. The evidence also proved that Joy and others, including the company's principals, conspired to obstruct an IRS audit and to file false tax returns. Joy filed false returns for the years 1993, 1994, and 1995 that failed to report the wages received in cash.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Woman Pleads Guilty to Tax Charge\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On January 7, 2004, Anita M. Gant, of Memphis, TN, pleaded guilty to one count of income tax evasion. Gant, along with her husband, Ricardo A. Gant, and Keith N. Smith, were charged in October 2003 with operating a nationwide scheme that defrauded private investors and churches of approximately $3.5 million. The indictment states that the Gants operated a scheme from 1997 through 2001 from their business, Capital Plus Worldwide Financial Services, Inc. The indictment also alleged that Ricardo Gant solicited individuals and churches to invest in \ldblquote Joint Venture Partnerships\rdblquote  that guaranteed the safety and security of the investment, and promised gains of 60% to 200% annually. During her plea agreement, Anita Gant admitted to failing to report in excess of $500,000 in income on her 1998 federal income tax return.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Financial Planning Service Owner Sentenced to Six Years for Tax Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On December 17, 2003, Mark W. May, in Dayton, Ohio, founder, president and owner of Maranatha Financial Group, Inc., a defunct fee-only financial planning service was sentenced to six years in prison and order to pay $728,090 in restitution to the IRS. May was convicted on September 26, 2003 of six counts of tax evasion and failure to remit payroll taxes to the IRS. Any involvement with the financial service industry will be considered a violation of his three years of supervised release which must be follow his prison sentence.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Bogus Sight Drafts Lands 33-Month Term\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 In St. Paul, Minnesota on December 16, 2003, Roger Leigh Oehler was sentenced to 33 months in prison after being convicted by a jury in July 2002 on 30 counts of passing fictitious obligations and give counts of submitting false statements to the IRS. From February 1999 to July 2000, Oehler used fraudulent \ldblquote sight drafts\rdblquote  in an effort to pay debts, obtain money or obtain tax refunds. Oehler wrote nine bogus sight drafts for payment of child support to state agencies and the social services department for his child support obligations. He also wrote fake sight drafts to pay his tax obligations and defraud credit card companies of over $200,000. Oehler was also convicted of filing false 8300 forms with the IRS.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Defendants Sentenced in Mortgage Fraud Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On December 2, 2003, in Statesville, N.C., James Edward McLean, president of First Beneficial Mortgage Corporation (FBMC), was sentenced to 21 years in prison and ordered to pay in excess of $23 million to over 200 hundred victims of FBMC\rquote s fraud. McLean, his wife, Marcy McLean and other defendants were convicted in connection with a mortgage fraud scheme involving conspiracy, wire fraud, making false statements and entries, and money laundering. As a result of the fraud, the defendants obtained more than $30 million during the course of the scheme.\line Other co-defendants sentenced include: \par
\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent360{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sb100\sa100 Marcy McLean was sentenced on November 24, 2003 to 126 months in prison and ordered to pay $23 million in restitution. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Paul Zimmerman and his wife, Debbie Zimmerman were each sentenced to 11 years each in prison and were also ordered to pay over $23 million in restitution. Zimmerman and his wife were convicted of one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States and three counts of passing counterfeit mortgages to the government. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Richiedean Gess, an FHA approved underwriter, sentenced on October 16, 2003 to 36 months in prison, followed by three years supervised release and ordered to pay $23 million in restitution. Gess pleaded guilty to conspiring with the McLeans and other s to commit fraud. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Willie and Alice Green, both were sentenced October 16, 2003 to 18 months in prison and ordered to pay $10 million in restitution. Both pleaded guilty to passing counterfeit mortgages to the government.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Andres Reyes Sentenced on Bank Fraud and Tax Evasion Charges in U.S. District Court\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On December 1, 2003, in Charlotte, N.C., Andres Reyes was sentenced to 57 months in prison, followed by five years supervised release and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $3.6 million after pleading guilty to charges of bank fraud, tax evasion and conspiracy. Reyes provided accounting services for a Charlotte construction company and its owner from 1998 through 2000. Utilizing his authority to write checks on the accounts of both the construction company and its owners, Reyes diverted in excess of $3.6 million if his clients\rquote  funds to bank accounts under his control. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Office Worker Sentenced in Embezzlement\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 20, 2003, in Birmingham, AL, Kathy Burttram was sentenced to 21 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release after being convicted on mail fraud and tax fraud charges. Burttram was an office manager at H.L. Coshatt Company in Birmingham, beginning in about 1993, she fraudulently wrote checks off the Coshatt bank accounts to pay her personal expenses. In 1999, she wrote checks totaling $160,024 which she knowingly failed to include on her 1999 income tax return. In all, she fraudulently took and mailed checks totaling about $412,000.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Mark Breese Sentenced to Federal Prison for Failing to Report Money Embezzled from the Colorado Daily Newspaper\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 17, 2003, in Denver, CO, Mark Allen Breese was sentenced to 21 months is prison for making false statements in a tax return. Breese fraudulently obtained approximately $250,000 from the Colorado Daily Newspaper while he was the Finance Director and then failed to report that money as income on his tax return. Breese withdrew money for his own personal use without the knowledge of any other employees or owners of the paper. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former State Employee Sentenced to Two Years for Fraudulent Tax Credit Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 14, 2003, in Cedar Rapids, IA, David Loney was sentenced to two years in prison, followed by five years of supervised release and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $99,000. Loney pleaded guilty in April 2003, to aiding and assisting in the filing of a false tax return and making a false statement within the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Labor. Loney admitted that while acting as his clients\rquote  representative in the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) and the Welfare-to-Work (WtW) tax credit certification process he used several different methods of improperly inflating his clients\rquote  WOTC and WtW tax credits and, as a result, improperly inflating his fees he collected from his clients.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b New York Advertising Executive Sentenced to 70 Months for Antitrust, Fraud, and Tax Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 13, 2003, in New York, NY, Mitchell E. Mosallem, former executive vice president and director of graphic services at Grey Global Group Inc., was sentenced to 70 months in prison for his role in bid-rigging, filing false tax returns from 1996 through 2000, and tax conspiracy. Mosallem was ordered to pay $247,000 in restitution and serve two years of supervised release. Mosallem was indicted on May 16, 2002, for conspiring to rig bids and allocate contracts for the supply of graphic services purchased by Grey on behalf of one of its clients from late 1994 until 2001, and for conspiring to defraud certain Grey clients in a phony billing scheme from 1991 until July 2000. On September 17, 2002, Mosallem was charged in a superseding indictment that included the two original counts and added three counts of conspiracy in connection with his receipt of kickbacks from vendors to Grey between 1990 and 2001, one count of conspiracy to defraud the IRS, and five counts of signing false tax returns. According to the charges, Mosallem received kickbacks from three suppliers of graphic services to Grey, and failed to account for those kickbacks on his income tax returns. In return for the kickbacks, Mosallem included the corrupt suppliers on Grey\rquote s limited list of approved vendors, and ensured that those suppliers received a portion of the total amount of contracts for graphic services awarded by Grey. The government estimated that MOSALLEM failed to report approximately $1.3 million in income during 1996 through 2000.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Accounting Manager for City of Grand Prairie Sentenced to Eight Years\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 12, 2003, in Dallas, TX, Fredrick Charles Miller was sentenced to eight years in prison after pleading guilty to money laundering and tax evasion charges. Miller was also ordered to forfeit $1.15 million and pay $1.45 million in restitution, which includes $300,000 to the IRS for taxes owed. Miller admitted that beginning in 1998 and continuing through 2001, he embezzled approximately $1.15 million and used his position as an officer to facilitate the embezzlement and thefts and devised various schemes to defraud and embezzle the funds. Miller also admitted that he attempted to evade his tax liability for 2000 by submitting to the IRS a false and fraudulent income tax return. Miller stated on the fraudulent tax return the $265,999 was his and his wife\rquote s income upon which a tax of $78,808 was owed, when in fact, Millers true income was $915,167 and tax owed was $335,074.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Vice-President of National Amusements Sentenced to 33 Months on Fraud and Tax Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On November 3, 2003, in Boston, MA, Peter J. Brady, the former Vice President of Construction at National Amusements, was sentenced on charges of mail fraud and filing a false tax return. Brady received 33 months in prison, followed by two years of supervised release and was also ordered to pay National Amusements $800,000 in restitution. The charges against Brady stemmed from the huge financial benefits he received from Old Colony Construction Company, one of National Amusements' general contractors. Brady, as National Amusements' Vice President of Construction, had wide authority to award multi-million dollar contracts for the construction of new theaters and to approve payments under those contracts. During this same time period, Brady received approximately $1.5 million worth of free construction services, gifts and landscaping at his Milton home, and at three other properties owned by him or family members. Brady falsified his tax return by not reporting all the services he was receiving from Old Colony. Brady also pleaded guilty to defrauding National Amusements of his honest services by virtue of the fact that he was receiving huge financial benefits from one of National Amusements' main contractors.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Local Attorney Receives 20-Month Prison Term on tax Evasion Charges\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 30, 2003, in Washington, D.C., Navron Ponds was sentenced to 20 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release and ordered to file the appropriate outstanding tax returns and pay restitution for any outstanding amounts. Ponds was convicted in July of tax evasion, failure to pay taxes and failure to file returns and wire fraud. Ponds failed to file timely federal personal income tax returns for calendar years 1988 and 1990 through 1994. Ponds also took numerous steps to evade payment and evade assessment of taxes, including, for example, transferring the title of his cars, selling a rental property and causing his sister to open an annuity account in her name with the proceeds. Ponds used the funds in that annuity account for his personal use and benefit.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Former Law Firm Employee is Sentenced for Wire Fraud and Under-Reporting Income in Connection with $1.6 Million Fraud Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 24, 2003, in St. Louis, MO, Kelly Layne Mullins was sentenced to 30 months in prison, without parole. She was also ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $1,648,901. On July 31, 2003, Mullins pled guilty to an information charging one felony count of wire fraud and four felony counts of making false material statements as to her income on federal income tax returns. From May 1996 through June 2002, Mullins was employed by Bryan Cave, LLP. Part of her duties included collections of past due accounts on behalf of Bryan Cave. She was also authorized to contract with outside collection agencies to assist in collection of past due accounts. In April 1996, Mullins created a fictitious company called Consultants of St. Louis (CSL) with a post office box in the name of Consultants of St. Louis/Kelly Mullins in Bridgeton, Missouri. CSL received 20% of the past due funds that they collected. Mullins hired CSL to collect past due accounts without Bryan Cave\rquote s knowledge that CSL was her company. This practice violated Byran Cave conflict of interest policies. False and fictitious records were created by Mullins representing CSL collection of money to Bryan Cave on delinquent accounts. Mullins then presented these records to Bryan Cave which then created checks to CSL for their collection of money. During the six-year period of this scheme, Mullins improperly received approximately $1.6 million dollars. Additionally, Mullins admitted with her plea in July that she under-reported her income on her income tax returns filed for 1998 though 2001, in excess of $1,185,000. This caused a tax due of approximately $462,000, which is also due to the US Treasury.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Cedar Falls Man Sentenced to 30 Months for Million Dollar Tax and Embezzlement Scheme\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 22, 2003, in Cedar Rapids, IA, Rodney V. Foster was sentenced to 30 months in prison, followed by three years of supervised release and ordered to pay $750,000 in restitution after pleading guilty to failure to account for and pay over withholding and FICA taxes, theft and embezzlement from an Employee Benefit Plan. Foster admitted that he deducted and collected federal income taxes and FICA taxes from employee wages in the sum of $1,046,258 and then willfully failed to pay these taxes to the IRS. Foster also admitted to converting $26,776 of the funds collected for his employees' pension benefit plan for his own use. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Tennessee Woman Sentenced in "Miracle Cars" Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 22, 2003, in Kansas City, MO, Gwendolyn Baker was sentenced to five years in prison and ordered to pay $12,527,195 in restitution. Miracle Cars was a nationwide conspiracy that defrauded thousands of victims of millions of dollars. The Miracle Car Scheme raised more than $20 million from individuals throughout the United States for the purchase of more than 7,000 automobiles and other motor vehicles. \par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Corporation President Sentenced\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 21, 2003, in Columbia, SC, Charles S. Porter, III, was sentenced to three years probation and ordered to pay a $100 assessment fee, $10,000 fine, and $15,240 in restitution. On April 3, 2002, Porter and his corporation, Southern Architectural Woodwork, Inc., pleaded guilty to income tax evasion. During the years 1995-1997, Porter, as the president and sole shareholder of Southern Architectural Woodwork, used various schemes to evade paying employment taxes, primarily social security and Medicaid withholdings on its employees. One scheme reduced employees' salaries and replaced the compensation with "per diem" or "travel advance" payments, so no taxes would be withheld or paid. Another scheme involved disguising salaries as "bonuses" and providing items to employees such as computers and home repairs instead of paying salaries. The total employment tax loss was over $61,000.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Sa'ad El-Amin Sentenced to 37 Months in Prison\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 17, 2003, in Richmond, VA, Sa'ad El-Amin was sentenced to 37 months in prison for conspiracy to defraud the United States by failing to file income tax returns and evade taxes. El-Amin and Beverly Crawford, his wife, were licensed attorneys and failed to pay the vast majority of the federal taxes assessed against them. As a result of their failure to pay these taxes, the IRS filed assessments and liens against El-Amin and Crawford totaling more than $700,000 for unpaid individual income taxes, corporate income taxes, employment taxes, penalties and interest. El-Amin was held accountable for a tax loss of $710,451.\par
\pard\keepn\sb100\sa100\b Prominent Oakland County Dentist gets Prison Sentence for Tax Fraud\par
\pard\sb100\sa100\b0 On October 14, 2003, in Detroit MI, Dr. Timothy Kosinski was sentenced to 30 months in prison, followed by two years supervised release and a $60,000 fine. Kosinski must also file correct and amended returns for the years 1996 through 1998. Kosinski was convicted by jury on one count of conspiracy to defraud the United States and to structure currency transactions, five counts of filing false personal and corporate tax returns, and one count of structuring currency transactions to evade the $10,000 reporting requirements.\par
\par
\pard\f1\fs20\par
}
 